[00:00] *** reportable6 left
[00:01] *** reportable6 joined
[00:01] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[02:13] *** Kaiepi left
[02:13] *** Kaiepi joined
[06:00] *** reportable6 left
[06:04] *** reportable6 joined
[06:04] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[07:36] <AlexDaniel> shareable6: uptime

[07:36] <shareable6> AlexDaniel, 1 week, 4 days, 19 hours, 36 minutes, and 14 seconds, 525.339844MiB maxrss. This is Rakudo version 2019.07.1-94-gd1f9d2848 built on MoarVM version 2019.07.1-50-gb614a7b4d implementing Perl 6.d.

[07:37] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: ↑ that little bot is just a Cro::HTTP::Server

[07:37] <AlexDaniel> so, yeah

[07:39] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: and that's how my htop looks like https://imgur.com/a/QXDu5hZ

[07:41] <AlexDaniel> taking more memory than gitlab is quite an achievement :)

[07:42] <AlexDaniel> but yeah, it's *much* better than it was before

[07:42] <AlexDaniel> and that's more than a week of uptime

[08:49] *** AlexDaniel left
[09:13] *** robertle joined
[10:19] *** anagura joined
[10:39] *** anagura left
[10:42] *** anagura joined
[10:47] *** anagura left
[11:27] *** ufobat_ left
[11:31] *** chloekek joined
[11:55] *** AlexDaniel joined
[12:00] *** reportable6 left
[12:04] *** reportable6 joined
[12:04] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[12:10] <AlexDaniel> wifi ✓ socket ✓

[12:10] <AlexDaniel> that's gonna feel quick :)

[12:14] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: re .LAVE, I don't think we'll be adding cute names any time soon :)

[12:14] <lizmat> hehe... yeah...  I think .code will do  :-)

[12:15] <lizmat> I think only "dd" is specifically calling .perl on what it gets...  and that's not even spec :-)

[12:15] <AlexDaniel> there's also $*PERL

[12:16] <AlexDaniel> call it $*LANGUAGE or whatever, I don't care

[12:16] <lizmat> yeah, we can deprecate that for $*CAMELIA  or whatever

[12:16] <lizmat> indeed

[12:19] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: something to think about, we probably don't want the rename to be tied to the language version (like the alias thing that happened to 6.d), but at the same time additions like .code and $*LANGUAGE will need to be added to some particular version

[12:20] <lizmat> we could tie them to 6.e

[12:20] <AlexDaniel> right, and the language release can happen much later, not a big deal

[12:20] <AlexDaniel> just please not at the same time :)

[12:20] <lizmat> indeed...

[12:21] <AlexDaniel> the noise about the alias was so loud that people kinda didn't even notice that we had an awesome language release

[12:21] <lizmat> yup

[12:21] <lizmat> sadly :-(

[12:22] <AlexDaniel> the language release can also happen before the full rename, “Deprecated $*PERL in favor of $*LANGUAGE” doesn't even necessarily mean that rename will happen

[12:23] <AlexDaniel> so that kinda works too, depending on how the timeline will go

[12:26] <lizmat> we'll see...  atm I'm keeping out of the discussion as much as possible, recovering from a cold, not having slept enough and an emotional rollercoaster

[12:30] *** chloekek left
[12:31] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: get well :)

[12:31] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: thank you, I will

[12:33] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: people are getting derailed a bit but I think the discussion is mostly healthy

[12:34] <AlexDaniel> though yeah, I also don't want to say anything before jnthn tells if we go this way

[12:34] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: I wish you strength ;)

[12:38] * lizmat goes out for a bit&

[12:55] *** chloekek joined
[13:36] *** Kaiepi left
[13:37] *** anagura joined
[13:40] *** AlexDani` joined
[13:41] *** anagura left
[13:41] *** AlexDaniel left
[13:56] *** AlexDani` left
[14:04] *** lucasb joined
[14:08] *** AlexDani` joined
[14:10] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[14:10] *** AlexDaniel left
[14:10] *** AlexDaniel joined
[14:45] *** cygx joined
[14:47] <cygx> AlexDaniel: on the contrary, I would argue a proper announcement of a new language name should conincide with a new spec and compiler release as well as new infrastructure (website, repositories, ...) going live

[14:48] <cygx> *coincide

[14:48] <AlexDaniel> cygx: been there done that

[14:48] <AlexDaniel> not again

[14:49] <cygx> what do you mean? were you involved with some other programming language changing its name?

[14:49] <cygx> because the 'Raku' thing wasn't that

[14:50] <AlexDaniel> yes, but Raku announcement completely shadowed the language release

[14:55] *** chloekek left
[14:56] <AlexDaniel> also I'm not sure how fast we'll be able to do 6.e

[14:56] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: wanna be the release manager for the language?

[14:56] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: to clarify, that's unrelated to compiler releases. Last time Zoffix did the language release while I was doing rakudo releases

[14:57] <cygx> I would argue the trigger on the name change should only officially bepulled *after* all other pieces are in place

[14:57] <cygx> I would argue *that* was the mistake last time

[14:58] <cygx> Perl6 can now also be called Raku - so what?

[14:58] <AlexDaniel> cygx: that's correct, it was basically “ok here's the name, we haven't figured out what it means in practice”

[14:58] <AlexDaniel> cygx: a full rename is more straightforward, and I think the plan is to include more details in the PR

[14:59] <AlexDaniel> cygx: but I'd guess a TL;DR of it will be “if you see Perl 6 anywhere, change it to Camelia (or whatever), possibly adding “previously known as Perl 6” if there's a need for that”

[15:01] <lizmat> but please, don't start doing that until we have a decision

[15:03] <cygx> not only a decision, but also a proper plan how the transition should happen

[15:03] <cygx> I don't want it to happen at all, but if it does, please don't drop the ball

[15:04] <lizmat> cygx: understood, we want to make new mistakes

[15:07] <cygx> exatcly ;)

[15:09] <cygx> I slightly worried when I see the claim that a rename would be 'straightforward'

[15:09] <timotimo> lots of things get renamed, not many things get an alias

[15:10] <cygx> there are lots of things that need to happen for that (changes to the setting, a new website, fixing the documentation, new marketing material, renaming the binary, ....)

[15:10] <cygx> if you do it piece by piece, you probably lose all the momentum the change might bring...

[15:12] <cygx> .o( Raider heißt jetzt Twix – sonst ändert sich nix! )

[15:14] <AlexDaniel> cygx: when I say straightforward I mean straightforwarder than an alias :)

[15:14] <timotimo> all we need is a straight forwarder

[15:15] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: should've used that instead of pumpking :)

[15:15] <AlexDaniel> too late anyway

[15:15] <timotimo> i wouldn't want it to sound like we only want straights to take that position

[15:15] <cygx> we really should have bound that name instead of assigned it

[15:16] <cygx> reference semantics would have made things trivial...

[15:17] <timotimo> if we had something like pypy where you can compile the interpreter with a different objectspace and then objects get a "become" method ...

[15:43] <cygx> btw, have people given some thought to stuff like the books, the TPF grants, etc?

[15:44] <cygx> bytes are easy to push, hardcopies and money less so?

[15:45] <timotimo> it'll still be a perl-family language, so i'd imagine TPF would still be there for it

[16:02] *** chloekek joined
[16:13] <AlexDaniel> cygx: people have thought, people haven't decided on a precise plan

[16:13] <AlexDaniel> yet

[16:15] <AlexDaniel> currently the only question is whether we really want to go in that direction, which jnthn will decide

[16:16] <AlexDaniel> then there will be a PR, which we'll be ironing out for some time

[16:21] *** AlexDaniel left
[17:12] *** chloekek left
[17:20] <cygx> the proof-of-concept for freezing precompiled modules seems to work:

[17:20] <cygx> https://github.com/cygx/p6-freezer

[17:20] <cygx> copies the precompiled moarvm files to cwd and may load them again

[17:37] *** AlexDaniel joined
[17:53] <timotimo> now put everything in a single file :) :) :)

[17:54] <cygx> that's the easy part

[17:54] <timotimo> base64 for the bytecode files?

[17:55] <cygx> why? perl6 can open binary files just fine

[17:55] <cygx> just write a header that encodes the offsets/lengths

[17:55] <timotimo> AFAIK perl6 will currently refuse to run a script that has invalid utf8

[17:56] <cygx> oh, you mean embed it into the script itself?

[17:56] <timotimo> yep

[17:56] <timotimo> so that it's all literally just a single file

[17:57] <cygx> thanks to pamplemoussse, we can now precompile scripts, you know

[17:57] <timotimo> right

[18:00] *** reportable6 left
[18:02] <timotimo> so basically write a script that'll at compile time read the files into buf8 objects and executes it, then turn that into a precompiled script

[18:02] *** reportable6 joined
[18:31] *** lucasb left
[18:56] <cygx> timotimo: I now use a precompiled module to store the bytecode blobs

[18:56] <cygx> seems to work fine

[18:57] <timotimo> damn

[19:00] <cygx> next on the agenda, parsing a META6.json file and generating a single .moarvm file from that

[19:00] <cygx> that might actually be useful for something

[19:00] <cygx> but not today

[19:19] <cygx> o/

[19:19] *** cygx left
[20:00] *** japhb left
[21:31] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: I saw your proposal and it's interesting. Need to consider it carefuly though. Do we have a list of duties for language RM somewhere?

[21:31] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: just this: https://github.com/perl6/roast/blob/master/docs/release-guide.md

[21:33] <vrurg> Aha, the one I once edited. ;)

[21:34] <vrurg> I'm honored! Need to consider if I can handle it well enough.

[21:35] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: but actually, we don't even have a list of actual duties for rakudo releases. Sorta discussed that at TPC a bit. Sure there's a release guide, but some things you just decide to do because you think it's right to do them

[21:40] <vrurg> I don't clearly understand yet would is included into the range of duties. But considering that most of my latest activies are one way or another related to 6.e, I really like it.

[21:44] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: well, the end goal is to declare 6.e released and start a 6.e-errata branch. You decide how you get us there :)

[21:45] <AlexDaniel> we also have tags?

[21:45] <AlexDaniel> why?

[21:45] <AlexDaniel> I don't know

[21:47] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: Aha. In either case, 6.e won't be ready before the next year. So, plenty of time. 

[21:47] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: why so?

[21:47] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: I'm not objecting, just want to know why :)

[21:48] *** MasterDuke left
[21:48] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: how many features planned for 6.e we have? Unless I miss something, but just few so far.

[21:50] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: yeah, we have to figure out how we want to create and keep that list

[21:50] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: we had that repo for 6.d: https://github.com/perl6/6.d-prep

[21:50] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: but I'm not happy about it, I don't want a new repo for every language release

[21:51] <vrurg> Exactly. problem-solving + 6.e lablel would suffice.

[21:52] <AlexDaniel> sounds about right

[21:53] <vrurg> Maybe a wiki page on problem-solving for the current status of implemented changes, but this is optional.

[21:54] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: or a ticket like https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/68 or https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/64

[21:54] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: then people also can leave comments

[21:54] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: or github Projects feature

[21:55] <vrurg> BTW, if name change gets approved, I think the '6' in language versions would remain. 

[21:55] <vrurg> I never used Projects before. But the name suggests that it's about the right thing for the task.

[21:55] <AlexDaniel> like “camelia v6.d”? Looks alright to me

[21:56] <AlexDaniel> although, to be completely honest, letters are a bit too unusual…

[21:57] <AlexDaniel> like why not semver? but whatever…

[21:57] <AlexDaniel> then we'd be able to do proper versioning of language versions instead of forever-changing errata branches

[21:59] <AlexDaniel> I don't know… Not trying to make any point just yet, just my thoughts out loud

[21:59] <vrurg> Just lets have some traditions be there. Somehow I like 6.x versioning. Maybe because it's distinctive from other languages.

[21:59] <AlexDaniel> did that a lot at TPC too :)

[22:00] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: yeah, it probably doesn't hurt. Something about this snowflake way of doing things just annoys me lately, it's just me I guess

[22:00] <vrurg> Hope your TPC was better than this year in Pittsburg. 

[22:01] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: besides, we have enough hustle with name change. Doing the same to the versioning would be an overkill... ;)

[22:02] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: TPC was amazing. Really positive atmosphere regarding perl 6 and its future.

[22:02] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: what happened in Pittsburg?

[22:03] <vrurg> Less people than last year, not so many interesting presentations. Two years ago in Washington it was tremendously good, I was breaking myself apart, trying to visit everything I conisdered interesting. 

[22:04] <vrurg> This time it was like 2-3 really interesting talks to me.

[22:05] <AlexDaniel> I missed a bunch of talks…

[22:06] <vrurg> If things go well, I plan to start own tutorial on Perl 6 though with focus in how things are implemented, not how they work. 

[22:06] <AlexDaniel> so can't comment on that, but the ones I've seen were pretty great

[22:07] <vrurg> People do great job on their presentations, that's no doubt. But the subjects...

[22:07] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: jnthn's keynote was really uplifting

[22:09] <vrurg> Ha, I bet it was! Perhaps I'm disappointed because there was Damian and Liz previously. Not this year. :)

[22:10] <vrurg> On the plus side, my spoken English got better and I had more contacts with people. :)

[22:10] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: yeah but liz did a keynote too

[22:11] <vrurg> Hope she gets her US visa problems resolved for the next year. 

[22:13] <vrurg> Anyway, "ok ramblers, let's get rambling!" I promised Xliff to resolve a problem with `require`. CompUnit is likely to return a pre-cached Stash without the module being currently imported. Took all my day yesterday just to get to this point. 

[22:14] <vrurg> And I take the job. I like it, the rest is not that important. :) The only thing currently worries me is that I might start looking for a second job around. But that is not decided yet.

[22:15] <AlexDaniel> good!

[22:15] <AlexDaniel> thank you :)

[22:16] <vrurg> Thank you too! As I said, it's honor too. I didn't expect to go that far just a bit over a year ago when first installed rakudo on my macbook. ;)

[23:36] *** robertle left
[23:37] *** robertle joined
[23:51] <vrurg> Is anybody still working on precompilation fixes?

