[00:32] *** summerisle_ left
[00:33] *** summerisle joined
[00:34] *** Opus left
[00:38] *** Opus joined
[01:14] *** acidsys left
[01:32] *** acidsys joined
[01:51] *** zenmov joined
[02:09] *** Manifest0 left
[02:15] *** Aedil left
[02:28] *** hulk joined
[02:28] *** kylese left
[03:00] <SmokeMachine> librasteve_: I was playing with components and I wrote a small, simple (and far from complete) components using Red and Cro... would you like to take a look? https://github.com/FCO/SmallComponentTest/blob/main/bin/small-component-test.p6

[03:15] *** hulk left
[03:15] *** kylese joined
[03:16] *** yewscion joined
[03:20] *** rickbike joined
[03:30] *** kylese left
[03:35] *** kylese joined
[03:35] *** rickbike left
[03:35] *** rickbike joined
[04:05] *** librasteve_ left
[04:12] *** zetaaaa left
[04:22] *** rickbike left
[04:23] *** rickbike joined
[05:05] *** japhb left
[05:09] *** japhb joined
[05:58] *** Aedil joined
[07:50] *** Aedil left
[07:54] *** kjp left
[07:55] *** kjp joined
[07:57] *** guifa left
[07:59] *** guifa joined
[08:23] *** yewscion left
[08:29] *** rickbike left
[08:40] *** guifa left
[09:31] *** Aedil joined
[09:35] *** MasterDuke left
[09:59] *** sena_kun joined
[10:44] <tbrowder> hi, i’m having problems with GitHub workflows with a module that requires manipulating a directory in the user’s home directory using a special build script driven by a Build.rakumod file.

[10:47] <tbrowder> i think i can just force the creation in the workflows file, but is there any way to have the script act as a non-priviledged user in his or her own process?

[10:54] <tbrowder> basically my build checks for the existence of a file in a HOME subdir and creates it if it does’t exist. it does create the subdir if it doesn’t exist.

[10:58] <tbrowder> the code is at “github/tbrowder/Font-Utils”. i probably need to follow @ugexe’s advice about moving away from build toward library make…

[11:42] <tbrowder> hm, setting env debug is a start…

[12:03] *** Sgeo left
[12:21] *** yewscion joined
[12:26] *** yewscion left
[12:54] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem/main: 69350e3710 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | META.list

[12:54] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem/main: Remove some of jnthn's modules

[12:54] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem/main: 

[12:54] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem/main: as they're being moved to the zef ecosystem

[12:54] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/ecosystem/commit/69350e3710

[13:22] *** yewscion joined
[13:28] *** yewscion left
[13:41] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> @ab5tract "Graphviz::DOT::Chessboard" was made entirely with the comma-2.0 plugin (v2.0-beta31). I found only one issue in which editing of the rakumod file hanged.

[13:42] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> I will try to reproduce it.

[14:11] *** yewscion joined
[14:14] *** guifa joined
[14:16] *** yewscion left
[14:25] *** yewscion joined
[14:52] *** Manifest0 joined
[14:58] *** zetaaaa joined
[15:06] *** yewscion left
[15:10] *** simcop2387 left
[15:10] *** perlbot left
[15:21] *** yewscion joined
[15:27] *** yewscion left
[15:36] *** yewscion joined
[15:41] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> ... no success reproducing so far...

[15:48] *** yewscion left
[15:57] *** zetaaaa left
[16:03] *** simcop2387 joined
[16:04] *** perlbot joined
[16:10] *** simcop2387 left
[16:10] *** perlbot left
[16:20] *** simcop2387 joined
[16:21] *** perlbot joined
[17:26] *** eseyman left
[17:29] *** manu_ joined
[17:33] *** zetaaaa joined
[17:45] *** guifa left
[18:25] *** manu_ is now known as eseyman

[18:52] <Geth> ¦ advent: librasteve++ created pull request #121: Day 3 is ready for scheduling

[18:52] <Geth> ¦ advent: review: https://github.com/Raku/advent/pull/121

[19:05] *** yewscion joined
[19:10] *** yewscion left
[19:43] *** yewscion joined
[19:48] *** yewscion left
[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: f1c82f83ab | librasteve++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | raku-advent-2024/authors.md

[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: Day 3 is ready for scheduling 

[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: 

[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: * Update authors.md

[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: 

[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: * Update authors.md

[19:48] <Geth> ¦ advent/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/advent/commit/f1c82f83ab

[20:06] *** yewscion joined
[20:11] *** yewscion left
[20:23] *** yewscion joined
[20:28] *** yewscion left
[20:33] *** eseyman left
[20:34] *** Aedil left
[20:35] *** finanalyst joined
[20:51] *** finanalyst left
[20:53] *** eseyman joined
[20:54] *** Sgeo joined
[20:55] <ab5tract> antononcube: Glad to hear there was only minor trouble. Hopefully we can lock down whatever's going wrong there, but it sounds like an otherwise positive report

[21:00] *** yewscion joined
[21:03] *** hellwolf left
[21:05] *** yewscion left
[21:10] *** hellwolf joined
[21:14] <coleman> Brushing up my advent post. I should have a draft to link to tonight.

[21:19] <[Coke]> coleman++

[21:46] *** rickbike joined
[22:29] *** sena_kun left
[22:52] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> Same here.

[23:10] *** Manifest0 left
[23:20] *** summerisle is now known as eof

[23:22] *** eseyman left
[23:32] *** yewscion joined
[23:42] *** yewscion left
[23:50] *** yewscion joined
[23:56] *** yewscion left
