[00:01] *** bsb joined
[00:03] *** macroron joined
[00:19] *** Captain_Fourier joined
[00:36] *** stephanepayrard_ joined
[00:45] <meppl> gute nacht

[00:47] <ZuluOne> gnight

[00:47] <meppl> ;)

[00:47] *** hikozaemon joined
[00:50] <ZuluOne> Random thought: Would it be useful for the smoke test result list to report arch? Maybe it already does and I am being blind.

[00:51] <ZuluOne> (i.e. rather than having to go look at the full report)

[00:53] <ZuluOne> The follow-up question being, would AMD64 results add anything? I could arrange for this box to run them nightly or so if it would be useful. Someone /msg me if so.

[00:55] <ZuluOne> I sleep.

[01:07] *** meppl joined
[01:07] *** ludan joined
[01:13] *** rashakil joined
[01:13] *** amnesiac joined
[01:17] *** scook0 joined
[01:40] *** mako132_ joined
[01:57] *** revdiablo joined
[02:00] *** jiing_mIRC joined
[02:02] *** jiing_ joined
[02:02] *** weinig|work is now known as weinig|sleep

[02:14] *** cmarcelo joined
[02:54] <cmarcelo> anyone up? third-party/fps' Data.ByteString conflicts with module with the same name in base package from GHC 6.5 trunk. I wonder if people using GHC 6.5 aren't yet with Data.ByteString in base, could you check with "ghc-pkg describe base | grep Data.ByteString". If that's the case it's possible prevent the conflict (which prevents build) to happen dropping references to (pugs-)fps when module already exists in base package. makes sen

[02:54] <cmarcelo> se?

[02:54] <cmarcelo> another thing, in third-party/fps/fps.cabal, the package Name is fps, shouldn't it be pugs-fps?

[02:56] <nothingmuch> hola

[02:57] <cmarcelo> ol√°

[02:59] <cmarcelo> nothingmuch: do you use ghc 6.5?

[02:59] <nothingmuch> nope

[02:59] <nothingmuch> 6.4

[02:59] *** mako132_ joined
[02:59] <cmarcelo> are you in YAPC::xy?

[03:00] <nothingmuch> yes

[03:00] <nothingmuch> actually 6.5.1

[03:00] <nothingmuch> err

[03:00] <nothingmuch> 6.4.1

[03:01] <cmarcelo> how are things going there?

[03:02] <nothingmuch> pretty nice

[03:02] <nothingmuch> just going off to the beer bof

[03:02] <cmarcelo> =)

[03:18] <audreyt> cmarcelo: I already renamed it as pugs-fps

[03:18] <audreyt> cmarcelo: maybe you didnt sync it?

[03:18] <audreyt> try rm and then svn up

[03:19] <svnbot6> r10938 | audreyt++ | * revert ingy's fps change

[03:21] <miyagawa> audreyt: some perlsyck tests are failing, other than ingy's completely broken one. Is that expected?

[03:21] <cmarcelo> audreyt: do you mind checking if your "ghc-pkg describe base" contains Data.ByteString?

[03:21] <miyagawa> 2-scalars.t and 3-objects,t

[03:25] <audreyt> miyagawa: 2- I just fixed

[03:25] <audreyt> 3- nothingmuch says he's wokring on it

[03:25] <miyagawa> ok

[03:25] <audreyt> nothingmuch: can you finish stabilizing 3-?

[03:25] *** unobe joined
[03:25] <audreyt> or was it your problem?

[03:25] <audreyt> cmarcelo: no because my packaged GHC specifically excludes it

[03:26] <audreyt> cmarcelo: the D.BS-in-base has another API

[03:26] *** marmic joined
[03:26] <audreyt> which totally killed interop

[03:26] <audreyt> cmarcelo: so we either rename the module

[03:27] <audreyt> or lost GHC 6.5 interop for now

[03:27] <cmarcelo> audreyt: hmmm.. i think they are in process of merge now, because i manually dropped refs to pugs-fps from Pugs and HsSyck, compiled and the first minutes of make test worked...

[03:27] <cmarcelo> i'm going to check libraries/base logs..

[03:27] <audreyt> oh good

[03:27] <audreyt> so it actually rosk

[03:27] <audreyt> works

[03:29] <audreyt> cmarcelo: in that case, we should restore the probe in Makefile.PL

[03:29] <audreyt> and not use the bundled

[03:29] <audreyt> when there's in it

[03:30] <audreyt> cmarcelo: so maybe help me reinstall r10900?

[03:30] <audreyt> it was a revert

[03:30] <cmarcelo> yep. and do some processing on HsSyck.cabal too..

[03:30] <audreyt> so revert that revert

[03:30] <audreyt> feel free to fix it

[03:30] <audreyt> I really need to crash now :)

[03:31] <cmarcelo> revert revert?

[03:31] <audreyt> svk desc

[03:31] <audreyt> and then apply reverse patch

[03:31] <audreyt> or something. improvise :)

[03:31] <cmarcelo> ok

[03:31] <audreyt> cmarcelo++

[03:31] <audreyt> fortunately it only affects 6.5-thisweek users

[03:31] <audreyt> so we don't need to pullback 6.2.12 or do 6.2.13 for them

[03:31] <audreyt> :)

[03:32] <cmarcelo> btw, just fixed one of the strange problems in HSIter.. (not the illegal instruction)..

[03:32] <cmarcelo> commit soon..

[03:35] <spinclad> smoke is back to 3:30

[03:48] <spinclad> ext/Perl6-Grammar/t/basic.t: 40.00% (3 4 6 7 9 10 12 13 15 16 18 19 21 22 24)

[03:48] <spinclad> t/rules/from_perl6_rules/named_cap.t: 65.38% (15..23)

[03:48] <spinclad> t/rules/from_perl6_rules/stdrules.t: 99.52% (22)

[03:48] <spinclad> t/rules/from_perl6_rules/word.t: 57.14% (3..5; 6 ok)

[03:49] <spinclad> overall 99.76%

[03:50] <spinclad> cmarcelo: pong

[03:52] <cmarcelo> spinclad: I (think) solved the segfault problem when a lot of memory was being used before calling HSIter...

[03:53] <spinclad> oh good.  glad one of us had a handle on it, since i didn't

[03:54] <nothingmuch> audreyt: sorry, beer bof

[03:54] <nothingmuch> soon

[03:56] <cmarcelo> spinclad: what are your plans re judy. submitting your patches for trunk? or still more changes in mind?

[03:58] <spinclad> will submit a patch this week.  i want to fill in some code doc, but no new features planned, and so far it seems stable.

[04:01] *** dasein left
[04:02] *** unobe left
[04:02] <cmarcelo> great. OT: the original judy tree seems a little unorganized, i wonder if there's unused/deprecated stuff around.. or is just all MACRO magic..

[04:02] *** unobe joined
[04:03] <spinclad> Judy1/JudyL ?  yeah, there's a lot of macro expansion there.  haven't look in detail though

[04:07] <spinclad> do you know what caused the segfaulting?

[04:10] <cmarcelo> my mistake. =|  I wasn't proper initializing Index and Length for HSIterFirst. I suppose It worked when I was "lucky" and memory was clean, but when mem was a mess (too much memory used before calling), they contained garbage..

[04:11] <nothingmuch> audreyt: pingf

[04:16] <svnbot6> r10939 | cmarcelo++ | * Judy.Map: Fixes segfault problem when using a lot of memory before

[04:16] <svnbot6> r10939 | cmarcelo++ | calling Iter functions.

[04:17] <spinclad> that is a tricky interface, and i'd like a better, but this is as good as i found.  suggestions welcome.  i'd have gladly done without an Iter structure, but it needs someplace to build the current index string in order to return it, and this structure worked for that.

[04:30] * spinclad *to bed*  g'night all.  happy pugsings  &

[04:31] <cmarcelo> bye

[04:46] *** huhlig-annoyed joined
[04:54] *** jiing_ joined
[04:54] *** stephanepayrard_ joined
[04:57] *** pfenwick joined
[05:11] *** scook0_ joined
[05:11] *** Ymmv joined
[05:13] <nothingmuch> audreyt: all tests pass

[05:13] <nothingmuch> ingy: fuck you man

[05:13] <nothingmuch> seriously

[05:13] <nothingmuch> die or something

[05:16] <nothingmuch> clarification: ingy is the one that inspired me to update the tests

[05:16] <nothingmuch> and then make syck actually pass them

[05:17] <nothingmuch> but at least it's well behaved now

[05:17] <obra> :)

[05:17] <nothingmuch> ingy++ overall ;-)

[05:17] <nothingmuch> i still have to write my slides though

[05:17] <nothingmuch> `/ tomorrow `/

[05:18] <obra> i need to revise my slides. but now, i need to sleep, not try audrey's crazy new multiversioning hack

[05:18] <nothingmuch> multiversioning?

[05:19] <nothingmuch> if audreyt is still awake ping for YAML::Syck moosing

[05:20] <svnbot6> r10940 | cmarcelo++ | * Get fps_dummy back so fps doesn't conflict with GHC-trunk Data.ByteString from

[05:20] <svnbot6> r10940 | cmarcelo++ | base package. Dons (fps maintainer) said that will merge again his fps with trunk

[05:20] <svnbot6> r10940 | cmarcelo++ | in next few weeks.

[05:21] <cmarcelo> any good soul could check if I didn't broke "perl Makefile.PL ; make" for GHC 6.4.x people? I tested here and it was fine, but two tests are better than one..

[05:21] <nothingmuch> cmarcelo: will try now

[05:22] <cmarcelo> tks

[05:25] <huhlig-annoyed> stupid question

[05:25] <huhlig-annoyed> does perl6 have 3270 emulation capavility

[05:26] <nothingmuch> 2370?

[05:26] <huhlig-annoyed> 3270

[05:26] <huhlig-annoyed> tn3270

[05:31] <huhlig-annoyed> I guess thats a no

[05:34] *** cmarcelo_ joined
[05:34] *** cmarcelo_ is now known as cmarcelo

[05:40] *** huhlig joined
[05:41] *** kane_ joined
[05:53] *** huhlig-annoyed joined
[05:57] <PerlJam> huhlig-annoyed: That's a "yes"

[05:57] <PerlJam> huhlig-annoyed: yes, it's a stupid question  :)

[05:58] <PerlJam> huhlig-annoyed: though I'm sure at some point someone may write a module to do 3270 emulation just like we have Net::Telnet and Net::FTP, etc.

[06:01] <cmarcelo> actually, it's possible (I think) to use perl5 modules in perl6 too..

[06:06] <cmarcelo> nothingmuch: any results?

[06:13] *** lisppaste3 joined
[06:30] *** renormalist joined
[06:36] *** huhlig joined
[06:36] *** renormalist joined
[06:38] *** visq_ joined
[06:57] *** jiing_mIRC joined
[07:01] *** dasein joined
[07:04] *** pjcj joined
[07:15] *** kanru joined
[07:20] *** pfenwick left
[07:29] *** nperez joined
[07:29] *** iblechbot joined
[07:30] *** visq joined
[07:59] *** bsb left
[08:13] *** huhlig-annoyed joined
[08:20] *** dduncan left
[08:29] *** rafl joined
[08:31] *** Grrrr joined
[08:40] *** drrho joined
[08:40] <cmarcelo> audreyt: build system works fine here with both GHC 6.5 and GHC 6.4.2... The only thing I ignored was a "-p" flag being used when compiling FPS_Dummy (or was the native?), since this part was moved out from Makefile.PL i didn't seem so important.

[08:41] <cmarcelo> i'll try to sleep a little bit... &

[08:41] *** cmarcelo left
[08:43] *** huhlig joined
[09:03] *** huhlig-annoyed joined
[09:24] *** elmex joined
[09:25] *** huhlig joined
[09:38] *** lambdabot joined
[09:57] *** buetow joined
[10:05] *** marmic joined
[10:07] *** tup joined
[10:10] *** huhlig-annoyed joined
[10:22] *** huhlig joined
[10:42] *** marmic joined
[10:57] *** chris2 joined
[11:01] *** marmic joined
[11:10] *** krychu joined
[11:13] *** huhlig-annoyed joined
[11:19] *** ludan joined
[11:27] *** mj41_ joined
[11:27] *** neoesque joined
[11:30] *** elmex joined
[11:53] *** mj41_ joined
[11:55] <mj41_> hello, how to fix win32 nmake error "expanded command line ...  too long"?

[12:06] *** Limbic_Region joined
[12:06] <Limbic_Region> Juerd ping

[12:07] <Limbic_Region> audreyt and/or anyone working on the change log - I assume this has already been caught but

[12:07] <Limbic_Region> Removed support for Parrot 0.4.4 or below and added support for GHC 0.4.5

[12:07] <Limbic_Region> s/GHC/Parrot

[12:12] *** bpphillips joined
[12:23] <Limbic_Region> audreyt ping

[12:23] <audreyt> pong

[12:23] <svnbot6> r10941 | audreyt++ | * oops, changelog typo caught by Limbic_Region++

[12:24] <Limbic_Region> know anything about icfp contest this year

[12:24] <Limbic_Region> apparently supposed to start in a few weeks but no info updated

[12:25] <audreyt> no idea

[12:25] <Limbic_Region> ok - thanks

[12:25] * Limbic_Region will relay the info

[12:28] *** b_jonas joined
[12:28] <Limbic_Region> speaking of...

[12:28] <Limbic_Region> salutations b_jonas

[12:29] <b_jonas> hello

[12:30] <Limbic_Region> as I mentioned in #perlmonks, audreyt has no idea but #haskell might be a good place to check

[12:30] <Limbic_Region> unfortunately, I am limited to just #perl6 and #parrot from work

[12:31] <Limbic_Region> well, theoretically I could configure CGI:IRC to let me access any channel on any network but since I am using Juerd's implementation - I will stick to the channels he feels are appropriate for the development of p6

[12:32] *** unobe joined
[12:34] <b_jonas> there's no #parrot channel on this server, you know

[12:35] <b_jonas> or it's well-hidden

[12:38] <Limbic_Region> b_jonas - no, #parrot is on perl.irc.org

[12:38] <Limbic_Region> err - irc.perl.org that is

[12:40] *** dazjorz joined
[12:40] <dazjorz> Hi there

[12:45] <b_jonas> oh, that one

[12:57] *** lollan joined
[12:58] *** lollan joined
[13:04] <renormalist> Hi!

[13:04] *** iblechbot joined
[13:05] <renormalist> In pugs/docs/Perl6/Spec/Concurrency.pod there are lines "multi foo () { ...no rebinding... }"

[13:05] <renormalist> Is such a "multi" without "sub" or "method" or "coro" legal?

[13:06] <renormalist> Ah, just found in S06: "If the routine keyword is omitted, it defaults to sub."

[13:06] <renormalist> should read before ask. :-)

[13:12] <dazjorz> b_jonas, ?

[13:16] * kolibrie rejoices (his wifi is working in the auditorium)

[13:17] <wolverian> yay, syn r9718 made for syntax sane again

[13:18] *** buetow joined
[13:20] *** vel joined
[13:23] <mj41_> my makefile pm_to_blib section is too long for nmake ... 2245B :-(

[13:28] *** hcarty joined
[13:28] *** hcarty left
[13:28] <b_jonas> dazjorz: pong

[13:29] <dazjorz> b_jonas: ping

[13:29] <dazjorz> reversed world :)

[13:29] <b_jonas> you said "?" above

[13:29] <dazjorz> yep

[13:30] <dazjorz> you said "oh, that one" above that

[13:30] <b_jonas> yes, that was for L~R saying "no, #parrot is on " ... "irc.perl.org"

[13:30] <b_jonas> sorry

[13:30] <dazjorz> oh right

[13:30] <dazjorz> ok

[13:30] <dazjorz> :)

[13:30] <dazjorz> [14:40] <dazjorz> Hi there

[13:30] <dazjorz> [14:45] <b_jonas> oh, that one

[13:31] <dazjorz> sounded a bit...

[13:31] <dazjorz> lol

[13:31] <b_jonas> in case anyone's still interested in the icfp contest thing,

[13:32] <dazjorz> like "oh, him again"

[13:32] <b_jonas> I haven't found much,

[13:33] <b_jonas> I've found two references on "http://radar.spacebar.org/", the weblog of Tom Murphy

[13:34] <b_jonas> Tom Murphy has the homepage "http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~tom7/", is/was a member of the CMU POP group ("http://www.cs.cmu.edu/afs/cs/Web/Groups/pop/pop.html") the icfp teaser site ("http://icfpcontest.org/index.shtml") refers to as organizer

[13:35] <b_jonas> and also Tom is the registrar of icfpcontest.org according to whois

[13:35] <b_jonas> however, both references on that blog are short and cryptic

[13:36] <b_jonas> I'd better write this on a html site instead of repeating it everywhere

[13:41] <dazjorz> b_jonas: a html site?

[13:41] <svnbot6> r10942 | renormalist++ | * cperl-mode.el: coro, yield, multi without routine keyword

[13:41] <dazjorz> b_jonas: are there any other languages to make a site in?

[13:43] *** mako132_ joined
[13:44] *** gaal joined
[13:44] <b_jonas> oh well, don't be so picky

[13:44] <kolibrie> good morning gaal

[13:44] <gaal> hello hello

[13:45] <gaal> where you at yo?

[13:45] <kolibrie> I'm in the auditorium, very front

[13:45] <kolibrie> center section on the left side

[13:45] <kolibrie> Perl 5.10 overview

[13:45] <gaal> I'm in Expo, nice talk about perl -d

[13:46] <rgs> who does that talk ?

[13:46] <rgs> about 5.10 overview

[13:46] <kolibrie> http://yapcchicago.org/the-schedule/tuesday

[13:46] <lambdabot> Title: "YAPC::NA 2006 &raquo; Tuesday"

[13:46] <rgs> thanks

[13:46] <kolibrie> rgs: Steve Peters

[13:47] <gaal> Steven Lembark is doing the debugger talk. Must be a Steven morning.

[13:47] * gaal looks for moose

[13:47] <rgs> Steve_p is very qualified to give a good talk about 5.10.

[13:48] <kolibrie> it's very nice, he's just telling us all the cool Perl 6 things they are backporting

[13:48] <rgs> not only backports, there are genuine improvements too

[13:49] <gaal> use feature *

[13:49] <gaal> I heard last night from dragonshild that lexical pragmas are finally in?

[13:49] <gaal> s/sh/ch/

[13:49] <kolibrie> I believe so

[13:49] <gaal> yay

[13:50] <rgs> yes, you can wrote your own ones in pure perl

[13:50] <rgs> perldoc perlpragma

[13:50] <rgs> I suppose a new 5.9.x release will be for not too long

[13:58] *** hexmode joined
[13:58] <xerox> audreyt: how does one do omioutliner -> keynote as you were saying sometime?

[13:59] <mj41_> docs/Perl6/Makefile pm_to_blib section is too long for win32 nmake 1.50 ... 2245B

[14:01] <gaal> mj41_: you need a newer nmake :)

[14:03] *** rashakil_ joined
[14:07] <mj41_> gaal: can't find newer nmake :-)

[14:10] * Limbic_Region wonders if mingw32-make works provided that msys is not in the path

[14:11] <gaal>  mj41_: see /msg :)

[14:11] * Limbic_Region tries it as it would be nice to add that to the readme for the poor schmucks on M$ that don't want to download the entire SDK just to get an nmake.exe from this century

[14:11] <gaal> wow the network is sucking here

[14:11] <Limbic_Region> gaal is nice enough to provide a copy for individuals on a case-by-case basis but anyone not showing up here complaining is SOL

[14:12] <kolibrie> gaal: still okay here

[14:12] *** christopher joined
[14:12] *** EarleMartin joined
[14:12] *** lollan joined
[14:15] <mj41_> seems like we need to set makemaker max_exec_len under 2048

[14:19] <Limbic_Region> mingw32-make is a no-go

[14:19] <Limbic_Region> perhaps dmake.exe?

[14:20] <mj41_> makemaker_args  (

[14:20] <mj41_> ....

[14:20] <mj41_>  tool_autosplit => {MAXLEN => 1500},

[14:24] *** rzoz joined
[14:28] <mj41_> grrr ... still too long :-(

[14:31] *** amnesiac joined
[14:33] <svnbot6> r10943 | fglock++ | v6.pm - emitter - added '.perl'

[14:43] *** notsri joined
[14:45] *** dasein joined
[14:45] *** justatheory joined
[14:47] *** huhlig joined
[14:59] <svnbot6> r10944 | fglock++ | v6.pm - 'class Point;' compiles to 'package Point; use Moose;';

[14:59] <svnbot6> r10944 | fglock++ | - Makefile.PL recommends 'Moose' => 0;

[15:01] <gaal> svk st shows: M third-party/fps/fps.cabal - should this file be in source control?

[15:02] <kolibrie> audreyt says yes

[15:02] <gaal> the diff is -Name: pugs-fps  /    Name: fps

[15:03] <kolibrie> oh, nevermind, after her fix it should be deleted

[15:03] * gaal is putting Best YAML in the test suite for spedups

[15:04] <gaal> saves almost a minute per thing-that-parses-tests.yml on my box

[15:10] <dasein> Where is there the most need for new volunteers in the project? I'd like to contribute, if possible.

[15:10] *** rashakil__ joined
[15:18] *** notsri_ joined
[15:20] *** Kattana joined
[15:24] *** snowstalker joined
[15:24] <gaal> ingy's talk is strating

[15:26] *** snowstalker joined
[15:31] <niner> dasein: AFAIK test writers are always needed. Apart from that I'd guess it depends on your talents/knowledge

[15:35] <svnbot6> r10945 | gaal++ |  r11013@sike:  roo | 2006-06-27 10:15:48 -0500

[15:35] <svnbot6> r10945 | gaal++ |  * Use best available of YAML::Syck and YAML.pm in test

[15:35] <svnbot6> r10945 | gaal++ |    system, for speedups during make smoke.

[15:36] <gaal> (Bundle::Pugs::SmokeKit updated on CPAN.)

[15:37] <dasein> niner: thanks for the reply.

[15:51] *** fglock joined
[15:52] *** cdpruden joined
[15:57] <mj41_> ExtUtils::MakeMaker 6.30, MM_Any, sub split_command, line 147

[15:57] <mj41_> # set aside 20% for macro expansion.

[15:57] <mj41_> my $len_left = int($self->max_exec_len * 0.75);

[16:00] <mj41_> err 0.75 is my "fix" ... orginal is 0.80 :-)

[16:01] <mj41_> 0.70 work for me

[16:06] *** vel joined
[16:13] *** Aankhen`` joined
[16:22] <svnbot6> r10946 | benedikth++ | util/catalog_tests: Make windows users happy + other bugfixes/improvements

[16:22] * Aankhen`` suddenly feels happier.

[16:23] <visq_> my pleasure

[16:25] <svnbot6> r10947 | fglock++ | v6/Moose - 'has $x'

[16:25] *** fglock joined
[16:29] *** unobe joined
[16:33] *** gaal joined
[16:40] <mj41_> another error

[16:40] <mj41_> subdirs :: cd ext\Algorithm-TokenBucket    $(MAKE) ...   cd ..

[16:40] <mj41_> better is cd ..\.. on win32

[16:43] <mj41_> *** Successfully built!

[16:43] <svnbot6> r10948 | fglock++ | v6/Moose - 'method'

[16:44] *** fglock joined
[16:44] * fglock muses

[16:46] *** dduncan joined
[16:50] *** chris2 joined
[16:52] *** prefiks joined
[16:55] <gaal> what are we doing for lunch today?

[16:55] <fglock> bbiab &

[17:06] *** rzoz joined
[17:08] <mj41_> ExtUtils::MakeMaker::MM_Win32

[17:08] <mj41_> sub cd ... B<NOTE> This cd can only go one level down.  So far this sufficient for what MakeMaker needs.

[17:19] <svnbot6> r10949 | fglock++ | v6/Moose - parser - 'method' is a statement

[17:28] *** Ymmv joined
[17:34] *** fglock left
[17:34] *** fglock joined
[17:39] <pasteling> "fglock" at 200.17.89.80 pasted "v6/Moose output" (26 lines, 398B) at http://sial.org/pbot/18030

[17:49] <prefiks> fglock: nice

[17:51] <Aankhen``> :-o

[17:51] <Aankhen``> fglock++

[17:51] <Aankhen``> # sweet!

[17:52] *** ZuluOne joined
[17:56] *** elmex joined
[17:58] <fglock> it still has an enormous TODO list :)

[17:58] * Aankhen`` nods.

[17:58] <Aankhen``> It's still cool to see what works. =)

[17:58] *** cmarcelo joined
[18:02] <fglock> bbiab &

[18:04] *** thepler joined
[18:08] <mj41_> I sent my Win32 MakeMaker patches to [email@hidden.address]
[18:09] <mj41_> ext\*  ... cd ..\.. fix

[18:09] <mj41_> and command line too long .... "set aside 20% for macro expansion" "fix"

[18:18] *** aufrank joined
[18:26] *** hexmode joined
[18:39] <ZuluOne> make smoke isn't working for me

[18:40] <ZuluOne> It says I don't have the required modules and to install Bundle::Pugs::SmokeKit, but it is already installed.

[18:46] <TimToady> ZuluOne: me too

[18:49] <TimToady> looks like it wants something called Best.  Maybe that's something new...

[18:50] <Limbic_Region> yes, Best.pm was uploaded to CPAN yesterday

[18:50] <ZuluOne> ah

[18:50] <ZuluOne> I take it we should just wait for it to hit mirrors.

[18:50] <ZuluOne> or I should anyway

[18:50] <Limbic_Region> and has been updated twice today apparently

[18:50] <Limbic_Region> http://search.cpan.org/~gaal/Best-0.03/

[18:50] <lambdabot> Title: "Gaal Yahas / Best-0.03 - search.cpan.org"

[18:51] <Limbic_Region> so blame gaal

[18:51] <Limbic_Region> he should have probably updated Bundle::Pugs::SmokeKit

[19:04] *** mako132 joined
[19:11] <fglock> nothingmuch, stevan: ping - I need a few p6-to-Moose examples to teach v6.pm

[19:17] <nothingmuch> fglock: can't right now

[19:17] <nothingmuch> talk in 3 minutes

[19:17] <nothingmuch> see audrey's slides

[19:17] <nothingmuch> they contain p6 and moose side by side

[19:19] <TreyHarris> audreyt: yuval's talking about your slides for which talk?

[19:21] <fglock> link?

[19:21] <svnbot6> r10950 | fglock++ | v6/Moose - '$.x'

[19:23] <mj41_> syntax error at ./util/yaml_harness.pl line 20, near "] qw/LoadFile DumpFile/"

[19:25] <cmarcelo> fglock: deploying perl and MS talk have some examples p6 <-> moose.. [if that's what you are asking].. they're in pugs.blogs.com

[19:29] <fglock> cmarcelo: found it - thanks! http://pugs.blogs.com/talks/npw06-deploying-perl6.pdf

[19:30] <svnbot6> r10951 | rootmj++ | * util/yaml_harness.pl - fix syntax error

[19:34] <cmarcelo> i'm getting checksum mismatch trying to install Best-0.03 from CPAN. anyone had sucess installing it?

[19:36] <Limbic_Region> cmarcelo - the checksum errors are due to \r\n versus \n

[19:37] <Limbic_Region> IIRC anyway

[19:38] <TimToady> I just installed using cpanp, but it doesn't say which version it put in.  But my smoke's running now.

[19:42] <svnbot6> r10952 | fglock++ | v6/Moose - added example 'moose.pl'

[20:08] *** kattana_ joined
[20:12] <svnbot6> r10953 | rootmj++ | * another use Best syntax error fix

[20:16] *** rindolf joined
[20:17] <rindolf> Hi all.

[20:21] *** weinig|sleep is now known as weinig

[20:25] *** jmacclure joined
[20:25] <buu> Limbic_Region: Hello!

[20:25] <buu> Limbic_Region: Are you here?

[20:27] *** gaal joined
[20:27] *** bpphillips left
[20:27] *** tuber joined
[20:31] *** szbalint_ joined
[20:31] <gaal> greetings kolibrie

[20:35] <gaal> sorry about the unBest folks. the bundle is updated to include it.

[20:35] <kolibrie> greetings gaal, sorry we missed for lunch

[20:36] <gaal> good news is a ~2min speedup in smokes on slow machines

[20:36] <kolibrie> oh, very nice

[20:36] * kolibrie has slow machines

[20:36] <gaal> kolibrie - that's okay, there's still dinner :)

[20:36] <kolibrie> :)

[20:39] *** rashakil_ joined
[20:42] <Limbic_Region> buu yes but I am headed home

[20:44] <Limbic_Region> well - guess it wasn't that important or else he has already left himself

[20:44] <Limbic_Region> TTFN all

[20:45] *** gaal joined
[20:45] <gaal> eeep, audrey's talk is covering a lot from my peek talk, which follows it immediately

[20:47] <buu> gaal: He goes very fast =[

[20:47] *** justatheory joined
[20:48] <gaal> hopefully I won't go too slow for the audience :)

[20:48] *** weinig is now known as weinig|bbl

[20:50] <kolibrie> gaal: audrey gives the intro, you get to fill in the gaps

[20:51] <gaal> i get to inflict haskell on everyone :)

[20:51] <kolibrie> moose!

[20:51] <gaal> caribou!

[21:02] *** jsiracusa joined
[21:02] <svnbot6> r10954 | Sage++ | Single elemements of arrays and hashes are now translated correctly (i.e. $hash{$key}->%hash{$key} and $array[$i]->@array[$i]). Some new utility functions in preperation for more translations.

[21:03] *** rashakil joined
[21:04] *** cmarcelo joined
[21:06] <svnbot6> r10955 | Sage++ | Updating translate.hs to match translate-sage.hs. Adds a lot of functionality. See revisions for tranlate-sage.hs for more info.

[21:06] *** DaGo joined
[21:06] <rindolf> Hi gaal

[21:07] <gaal> hi, up for a talk now :)

[21:07] <rindolf> IRC... there goes my productivity.

[21:07] <svnbot6> r10956 | Sage++ | Fixed typo in last revision that messed up a comment.

[21:07] <rindolf> gaal: yeah.

[21:07] <rindolf> gaal: I can say the same about you.

[21:07] <rindolf> gaal: the first bug for two WWW-Search-* modules I wrote as a contractor was filed.

[21:08] <rindolf> gaal: it claims that the module dies on empty results. I believe I checked them, tough.

[21:08] <rindolf> Maybe the HTML got broken, or it's some weird variation.

[21:09] <rindolf> My HTML::PullParser code is not very robust.

[21:09] <rindolf> I just do a ->look_down() and often don't check for undef, etc.

[21:09] <rindolf> Don't know if I can use XPath there.

[21:10] <rindolf> I bitched about irc.perl.org to someone on AIM some minutes ago.

[21:10] <svnbot6> r10957 | fglock++ | v6.pm - moose.pl compiles; 'ro' access not implemented yet;

[21:10] <svnbot6> r10957 | fglock++ | - a change in 'my' parsing broke t/07-binding.t, t/07-range.t

[21:11] <rindolf> Is svnbot6 written in Perl6?

[21:11] <kolibrie> I think so

[21:13] <rindolf> kolibrie: nice.

[21:13] <rindolf> Maybe that's why it has a 6 appended to it.

[21:17] <kolibrie> rindolf: examples/network/svnbot.p6

[21:17] <ZuluOne> cool

[21:17] <rindolf> kolibrie: OK.

[21:19] <rindolf> kolibrie: now I'd like to write a program to analyse the log files of Freenode's #perl in Smalltalk. It would be very easy to write in Perl, but I'm trying to get fluent with Smalltalk.

[21:19] <rindolf> Maybe I should write it in Perl first, and then translate it.

[21:19] <rindolf> I just want a word count and stuff.

[21:21] *** Limbic_Region joined
[21:21] <svnbot6> r10958 | fglock++ | v6 - fixed 'my' parsing - t/07-binding.t passes again

[21:22] <kolibrie> I think stevan knows some smalltalk

[21:30] <rindolf> kolibrie: yeah.

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10959 | fglock++ | p6 - t/07-range.t passes again

[21:30] <rindolf> kolibrie: I'll also probably write it in Common Lisp which I intend to learn next.

[21:30] <rindolf> kolibrie: did you ever design a language?

[21:30] <rindolf> kolibrie: I did.

[21:31] <rindolf> http://www.shlomifish.org/Vipe/rindolf/

[21:31] <lambdabot> Title: "Rindolf Specification Document"

[21:31] <rindolf> Now I'm designing another one.

[21:31] <rindolf> lambdabot: thanks!

[21:39] <audreyt> fglock: I finished my talk; people seem to like it :)

[21:43] <clkao> audreyt: it's excellent

[21:44] <audreyt> danke

[21:46] <rindolf> Hi audreyt

[21:47] <rindolf> audreyt: can I quote you from IRC about being a consultant/contractor?

[21:47] *** sahadev joined
[21:47] <rindolf> audreyt: the talk we had the other day?

[21:47] <rindolf> audreyt: with/w.o. proper attribution.

[21:48] <fglock> audreyt: great - I'm implementing v6/Moose :)

[21:48] <fglock> try moose.pl in P-C-P6/

[21:49] <rindolf> fglock: wasn't Moose based on the Perl 6 object system?

[21:49] <rindolf> Shouldn't you guys mention YAPC in the topic? Just a suggestion.

[21:49] <fglock> rindolf: yes - I'm using it as a runtime

[21:49] <rindolf> fglock: I see.

[21:49] <fglock> v6 is a perl5 module

[21:50] <rindolf> fglock: are namespaces in Perl6 first-order objects?

[21:50] <rindolf> I suppose they are.

[21:50] <rindolf> Are there anonymous namespaces?

[21:51] <fglock> rindolf: anonymous classes, maybe? yes

[21:51] <rindolf> fglock: no anonymous namespaces.

[21:51] <rindolf> fglock: that you can clone a namespace, manipulate  it and then bind it in a different place.

[21:51] <rindolf> fglock: or use it as it is.

[21:53] <rindolf> Don't know if it makes much sense, but it was a part of Rindolf ( http://www.shlomifish.org/Vipe/rindolf/ ). I don't know how useful or implementable it is.

[21:53] <lambdabot> Title: "Rindolf Specification Document"

[21:53] <fglock> module { my $x } -- $x belongs to no namespace, I think

[21:53] <rindolf> fglock: I see.

[21:54] <fglock> later &

[21:54] <rindolf> I'd better get to sleep, but first I'd like to write some code. Refactoring - here I come.

[21:56] <fglock> audreyt: I have to find out what I'm going to talk about in YAPC::SA

[21:57] <fglock> can I have subdirs in t/ (in perl5)?

[21:58] *** fglock left
[22:03] *** shachaf joined
[22:18] <audreyt> fglock: sure

[22:19] <audreyt> rindolf: sure

[22:21] *** justatheory joined
[22:25] *** justatheory joined
[22:34] *** lumi joined
[22:38] *** lampus joined
[22:49] *** weinig|bbl is now known as weinig

[23:10] *** weinig joined
[23:17] *** bsb joined
[23:38] *** justatheory joined
