[00:07] <mdiep> is the v6-pugs; source in the pugs tree?

[00:07] <mdiep> (I guess it'd make sense that it is)

[00:09] *** clkao_ joined
[00:11] <mdiep> clkao_: is all the v6 code in the pugs tree?

[00:14] <audreyt> mdiep: perl5/

[00:14] <audreyt> yes

[00:14] <audreyt> perl5/PC-P6

[00:14] <mdiep> audreyt: can I get a commit bit?

[00:14] <audreyt> mdiep: email?

[00:14] <mdiep> audreyt: [email@hidden.address]
[00:14] <audreyt> welcome aboard, add your name to AUTHORS!

[00:15] <mdiep> cool. thanks! :-)

[00:15] <audreyt> dinner &

[00:15] <mdiep> heh. my name's already in AUTHORS :-)

[00:16] <clkao_> mdiep: yes, i have a branch under pX/clkao, which does the data::bind-ism callconv and signature

[00:23] <meppl> gute nacht

[00:28] *** dolmen joined
[00:35] *** buubot joined
[00:39] *** buubot joined
[00:41] <TreyHarris> so C<...> will returnan exception if use fatal is not set, but will throw an exception otherwise, right?

[00:55] *** buubot joined
[01:11] *** dolmen joined
[01:12] *** coumbes joined
[01:23] *** Entonian joined
[01:46] *** weinig is now known as weinig|zzz

[01:57] *** frederico joined
[02:06] <audreyt> TreyHarris: right

[02:31] *** scook0 joined
[02:59] *** justatheory joined
[03:06] * nothingmuch performs an amazing spin kick 43 meters in the air, landing soundlessly on his head

[03:08] *** markstos joined
[03:09] <markstos> I'm migrating Class::ISA to Perl6 and am getting this error: No compatible subroutine found: "&length"

[03:09] <markstos> How should I call "length" now?

[03:10] <markstos> I think I found my answer in Differences.pod

[03:15] <nothingmuch> ah

[03:15] <nothingmuch> that's a pretty tough one

[03:16] * nothingmuch quits irssi to set timezone

[03:17] *** nothingmuch joined
[03:20] <TreyHarris> ?eval defined fail

[03:20] *** evalbot_11061 is now known as evalbot_11065

[03:20] <evalbot_11065> *** Failed     at <eval> line 1, column 1-13

[03:21] <PerlJam> markstos: if you want "length in characters", you call .chars

[03:22] <markstos> Perljam: Thanks, I found that.

[03:22] <markstos> Has something changed about how the ISA variable is used? That part of the code now runs, but causes an infinite loop....

[03:23] <nothingmuch> markstos: the ISA variable is... errmmm.

[03:23] <nothingmuch> you prolly wanna use the MOP for introspection

[03:23] <nothingmuch> only we haven't gotten there yet

[03:23] <markstos> Oh.

[03:24] <markstos> I'm basically trying to say "show me all the things I inherit from".

[03:26] <markstos> Does ISA even exist anymore? There' s not a single test which mentions it in the suite.

[03:28] <PerlJam> markstos: not in that form, no.

[03:29] <PerlJam> perl6 will have lots of ways of introspection, but they're not all fleshed out.

[03:30] <markstos> Ok. I guess my porting project is on hold for the moment, then.

[03:32] *** stevan joined
[03:32] <nothingmuch> markstos: short answer: you won't need Class::ISA in Perl 6

[03:33] <nothingmuch> look in s12 (The bottom) for some previews

[03:33] <stevan> markstos: you will be able to do something like: $foo.meta.class_precendence_list() to get all the parents in the correct ordering

[03:34] <stevan> that will be equivalent to Class::ISA::self_and_super_path

[03:34] <PerlJam> I think I'll re-read the synopses before bed tonight. All sorts of stuff has changed and while I've kept up with some of it, a cohesive whole is better to look at that a bunch of parts :)

[03:34] <markstos> Thanks for the answers everyone.

[03:35] <markstos> Is this a feature to expect to appear in the near term? Just curious.

[03:35] <stevan> PerlJam: what I am talking about is not in Syn 12, Larry has basically said that the meta API is not part of the language, but instead part of the runtime (or at least this is how I understood it when audreyt told me)

[03:35] <audreyt> markstos: Class::MOP backport? yes, that's when stevan arrives

[03:35] <stevan> audreyt: I am here :)

[03:35] <audreyt> in obra's house?

[03:35] <audreyt> wow

[03:35] <audreyt> somehow I missed you

[03:35] <audreyt> come upstairs and say hi

[03:35] <stevan> dont turn around,..

[03:36] <markstos> You two...

[03:36] <PerlJam> audreyt: you know how all geeks look alike

[03:36] <stevan> the commisars in town ....

[03:36] * stevan keeps singing Falco in his head 

[03:36] <stevan> its amazing the associations ADD will make

[03:37] <stevan> s/will/will cause you to/

[03:37] <audreyt> stevan has ADD?

[03:37] <audreyt> I never knew that

[03:37] <stevan> audreyt: if you dont know,.. I wont tell you now

[03:37] <PerlJam> so ... what's the plural of moose?  Is it meese?

[03:37] <markstos> audreyt: Are you suggesting porting Class::MOP  from p5 to p6? I'm confused.

[03:37] <stevan> markstos: Class::MOP is a bridge to Perl 6

[03:37] <audreyt> PerlJam: plural of mosse is moose

[03:37] <audreyt> markstos: I'm suggesting implementing natively .meta

[03:38] <audreyt> in the haskell runtime

[03:38] <nothingmuch> but first it needs to be designed

[03:38] <markstos> :)

[03:38] <nothingmuch> *cough*

[03:38] <audreyt> I thought that's what we did

[03:38] <audreyt> in YAPC::NA

[03:38] <audreyt> namely taking Moose and add Module/Package

[03:38] <audreyt> that should be good enough no?

[03:38] <nothingmuch> oh, so just CLOSish Class::MOP?

[03:38] * stevan stares blankly

[03:38] <nothingmuch> i thought that was just for the bridge

[03:38] <audreyt> no it's also for the hs runtime

[03:38] <nothingmuch> what about the prototype object model?

[03:38] <audreyt> should keep identical

[03:38] <markstos> But right now, could do I the trick where I load p5 Class::MOP into Perl6? :)

[03:39] <stevan> prototype, schmototype

[03:39] <audreyt> markstos: you can certainly try :)

[03:39] * nothingmuch wants prototype object waaaaaaah

[03:39] <audreyt> (but at which point you mise well write in p5 at this point)

[03:39] <audreyt> nothingmuch: protometa can be done in p5 as well

[03:39] <nothingmuch> waaaaaaaaaaaah

[03:39] <audreyt> nothingmuch: just use anonclass gensym to emu

[03:39] <nothingmuch> yeah

[03:39] <stevan> markstos: yes,.. what audreyt said (damn these webbed fingers)

[03:39] <nothingmuch> i think tha'ts what Moose does

[03:39] <nothingmuch> sort of

[03:40] <nothingmuch> stevan: maybe you should take a shower, so that the web can wash off?

[03:40] <markstos> I'm really trying to port CGI::Application. So if I can port that Perl6, and replace Class::ISA with p5 Class::MOP, I'll be happy for now.

[03:40] <PerlJam> stevan: are you a platymoose?

[03:40] * stevan will make nothingmuch a small protomodel to have for his very own

[03:40] <audreyt> markstos: I think it's best to start a p5 port to Moose

[03:40] <nothingmuch> markstos: i'm not sure you wanna go there

[03:40] <audreyt> and we will deal with syntactic conversion after that

[03:40] * nothingmuch agrees with audreyt 

[03:41] <nothingmuch> also, C::A should probably stay in p5 land, for maximum compatibility

[03:41] <nothingmuch> while a p6 version makes use of the crazier features

[03:41] <stevan> markstos: I have many things to show you then,.. like our Moose layer over CGI::App that we use for work

[03:41] <markstos> Whoa.

[03:41] <stevan> markstos: did you talk to robkinyon at YAPC?

[03:42] <markstos> stevan: I didn't even see him there.

[03:42] *** miyagawa joined
[03:42] <markstos> stevan: I'm not sure I know his photo to recognize him.

[03:42] <stevan> markstos: ah, oh well

[03:42] * stevan orders nothingmuch to produce a moose picture

[03:42] <nothingmuch> markstos: http://flickr.com/photos/nuffin/179250393/

[03:42] <lambdabot> Title: "DSC_3329.jpg on Flickr - Photo Sharing!"

[03:43] <markstos> So the consensus seems to be that it makes more sense to migrate CGI::App p5 from Class::ISA to Class::MOP as a first step ?

[03:43] <nothingmuch> i would bet my money on some role based wackiness

[03:43] <stevan> markstos: yes,.. keeping in p5 land for now

[03:43] <stevan> yes, roles are good,.. they are the perfect plugin system

[03:43] <nothingmuch> and rely on the perl 5 compatibility bridges for C::A apps

[03:43] <nothingmuch> well, not perfect, but almost

[03:43] *** petdance joined
[03:43] <markstos> Ok. That's only ironic because I started the project to be able to dabble in Perl6. :)

[03:44] <stevan> markstos: 90% of Moose features will be easily (if not automatically) portable to Perl 6

[03:44] <markstos> Oh. I did meet Rob, I just didn't know it.

[03:44] <stevan> markstos: dont let us stop you if you wanna play with perl 6 :)

[03:44] <audreyt> to play with Moose is to play with perl6 :)

[03:45] <markstos> He was explaining why OO is better than procedural programming to an innocent bystander...

[03:45] <petdance> Hey markstos!

[03:45] <nothingmuch> i'd imagine that was a painful process

[03:45] <stevan> ah, you were there for that,.. I head about it

[03:45] <petdance> What are you doin' here in perl6 world?

[03:45] <markstos> audreyt: I'm sure you are right. I'll learn the new object moose meta model thingie better.

[03:45] <petdance> I think I'm gonna be alester over here.

[03:45] *** petdance is now known as alester

[03:46] <markstos> alester: playin' and learning. Tinkerin' with a CGI::Application port

[03:46] <nothingmuch> alester: how was your flight?

[03:46] <markstos> which turned into a Class::ISA port... which turned into this IRC conversation...

[03:46] <alester> nothingmuch: What flight?

[03:46] <nothingmuch> err, antiflight

[03:46] <alester> I live in McHenry.  2 hours away from IIT.

[03:46] <stevan> flight from the hackathon

[03:46] <nothingmuch> (stevan just corrected me)

[03:46] <nothingmuch> i assumed you would fly because for some reason i decided you were further east

[03:46] <alester> We fed Randal and Alias

[03:46] <stevan> alester: he meant how was you pizza,..

[03:46] <alester> it was delicious

[03:47] <alester> also, cute waitress.

[03:47] <stevan> mmmm, wonder-bread and cheese

[03:47] * stevan feed chromatic, gaal, nothingmuch, robkinyon and allison

[03:48] <alester> Hackathon at my house tomorrow!  Whoo!

[03:48] <stevan> I will wave from the plane as we leave chicago airspace

[03:48] <nothingmuch> you can retroactively feed us

[03:49] *** perlbot joined
[03:50] <alester> Stevan: You will probably fly over my house.

[03:50] <alester> We were talking about that on the way out here.

[03:50] <svnbot6> r11066 | lwall++ | Latest thinking on STM verbiage.

[03:51] *** jkanter joined
[03:52] <stevan> markstos: if you have moose/Class::MOP questions, feel free to ask away on #moose as well

[03:52] <stevan> over on irc.perl.org that is

[03:52] <markstos> stevan: Thanks.

[03:53] <kattana_> hmmm it would be neat if you could use seti@home like grid software to take advantage of peoples home/desktop/workstation/dev computers during hackathons/lans to speed up things like compile&testing since many people bring laptops and not heavy duty machines, or at least link the laptops as enough of them would be equivilant to such a machine.

[03:53] *** kattana_ is now known as Kattana

[03:53] <nothingmuch> Kattana: ccache and distcc

[03:53] <nothingmuch> apple has that with zeroconf support, actually

[03:53] <nothingmuch> a.k.a "Bonjour"

[03:54] * Kattana looks them up

[03:55] <Kattana> those are only C/C++

[03:56] <nothingmuch> true that

[03:56] <nothingmuch> but pretty easy to implement for typical preprocess-compile-link cycle compilers

[03:57] <Kattana> well, at least i dont have to do my own proof of concept.

[03:57] <nothingmuch> note that ghc tends to be a bit funnier thoug

[03:57] <nothingmuch> h

[03:58] <Kattana> I had something more general in mind to speed things up tho, get the processing out of the way and take advantage of the time people are together

[03:58] <TimToady> audreyt: I think I'm done thinking about STM for now.  I didn't like sync/resync because it implies different threads are doing the same thing at the same time.  After glaring at words for most of the day, I've settled on contend/defer instead.  alternates are still "maybe" though.

[03:58] <Kattana> TimToady: did you get my pm I sent a while ago?

[03:58] <obra> contend feels a little weird as a name. but I'm coming at this as "j random perl5 hacker"

[03:58] <TimToady> pm?

[03:58] <audreyt> TimToady: sure. so maybe needs to line up?

[03:58] <Kattana> PrivateMessage

[03:59] <audreyt> also I'm imagining these are imported from some package

[03:59] <audreyt> use Threads::STM;

[03:59] <audreyt> to avoid clashing

[03:59] <TimToady> I doubt "contend" will class with much.  "defer" is a little likelier.

[03:59] <TimToady> *clash

[04:00] <TimToady> anyway, I like the metaphor of having an intellectual argument between threads

[04:00] <audreyt> yup

[04:01] * Kattana wonders when we will be advanced enough to have flamewars between threads

[04:01] <nothingmuch> Kattana: STM is kinda that

[04:02] <nothingmuch> they stupidly try to restate their point till something listens ;-)

[04:03] <Kattana> isnt that more like trolling.

[04:04] <audreyt> Software Troll Memory

[04:04] *** Debolaz joined
[04:04] <TimToady> Kattana: I don't recall getting a pm.

[04:05] <Kattana> I will resend then.

[04:05] <alester>  TimToady is Larry, right?

[04:05] <TimToady> that's what they tell me.

[04:06] <nothingmuch> Kattana: make sure you're registered with nickserv

[04:06] <TimToady> or just send email

[04:06] <Kattana> hmm.. ty

[04:07] <TimToady> larry at wall dot org

[04:08] <clkao_> nothingmuch!

[04:08] <nothingmuch> clkao_: !

[04:09] <nothingmuch> i think you friended the wrong nothingmuch on flickr, btw

[04:09] <nothingmuch> clkao_: so are we going hiking?

[04:09] <nothingmuch> i'd like to tell my mother "this is the guy that's going to prootect me from bears and rapists"

[04:10] <Kattana> pm sent, not worth the effort of email.

[04:11] <TimToady> got it, thanks!

[04:14] <Kattana> good, now get with the times "email is only for old people" :p

[04:14] <clkao_> nothingmuch: what is the actual plan

[04:15] <nothingmuch> clkao_: rent/bus to Franconia notch state park

[04:15] <nothingmuch> then as per jwang's advice go via the loop

[04:15] <nothingmuch> mt. flume, lafayette, twins, maybe bonds too

[04:15] <nothingmuch> depending on progress and rate

[04:15] <nothingmuch> i have maps + book to clarify details

[04:16] <nothingmuch> and my del.icio.us page has some untagged pages

[04:16] <clkao_> nothingmuch: that's where you showed me with google map the other day? and which day

[04:16] <nothingmuch> leave thursday, return monday

[04:16] <clkao_> dude, my flight is on sunday

[04:17] <nothingmuch> oh

[04:17] <nothingmuch> so return saturday?

[04:17] <nothingmuch> if we have a car we don't need as much schedule padding

[04:17] <clkao_> *nod*

[04:17] <clkao_> you arrive tomorrow afternoon?

[04:17] <nothingmuch> yep

[04:17] <clkao_> let's decide over dinner. that's easier

[04:17] <clkao_> so tired

[04:17] <nothingmuch> okay

[04:17] <nothingmuch> spleep!

[04:17] <nothingmuch> oh

[04:17] <nothingmuch> rob tought us an awesome trick for the SSV dorms

[04:18] <nothingmuch> when the guy is not paying attention, pass the blipper several times

[04:18] <nothingmuch> robkinyon++

[04:18] <nothingmuch> too bad we're the only ones still here ;-)

[04:22] <TimToady> no we're not...

[04:24] <nothingmuch> TimToady: still about?

[04:24] <nothingmuch> well, you don't have stowaways, right?

[04:25] <TimToady> I'm still here till 10:44 tomorrow morning.

[04:25] <nothingmuch> hmm

[04:25] <nothingmuch> then I guess gaal's ride doesn't hel pmuch

[04:25] <TimToady> I traded a 7-day card with someone who's card lasts till tomorrow, so I'm all set.

[04:26] <TimToady> *whose

[04:26] <TimToady> but have to leave here about about 7:30

[04:34] <Yaakov> Hello, Larry.

[04:34] <TimToady> howdy.

[04:35] <nothingmuch> TimToady: good luck waking up =)

[04:36] <TimToady> I'll have to find my emergency toothpicks for propping open my eyelids...

[04:37] <TimToady> but I contend that I should defer that till morning, maybe...

[04:39] <audreyt> zzz &

[04:40] <TimToady> me2 &

[04:40] *** Entonian joined
[04:43] *** fglock joined
[04:44] *** cmarcelo joined
[04:46] *** lambdabot joined
[04:49] * gaal meows

[04:49] * stevan wonders if that is some kind of moose mating call

[04:50] <gaal> no, it's what happens when you stand in a party next to a moose and somebody askes who wants another beer and the moose turns to look at you and bonks you with its antlers.

[04:51] <stevan> :)

[04:56] <markstos> Switching from Class::ISA to Class::MOP was two lines for CGI::Application. One for the 'use' line, and one for the method call. Very nice.

[04:56] <markstos> I'm pushing 4.07_01 to CPAN now with this change.

[04:57] <stevan> markstos: nice! my Class::MOP Kwalitee will go up ;)

[04:58] <fglock> hi!

[04:59] <stevan> fglock++

[04:59] <stevan> fglock: I meet many people at YAPC who wanted to talk to you :)

[04:59] <fglock> hi stevan!

[04:59] <stevan> lots of interest in Pugs::Compiler::*

[04:59] <fglock> I wish I was there

[04:59] <stevan> I told them all to go to YAPC::SA

[05:00] <fglock> cool! I'm sorry I couldn't get sponsors interested :(

[05:01] <fglock> It would be cool to see you here!

[05:02] <stevan> fglock: I would love to be a globe trotting perl superstar like audreyt, but alas the wife and kids would miss me

[05:02] <fglock> yes I know :)

[05:03] <nothingmuch> well, as a globe trotting superstar you could make more money

[05:03] <fglock> I'm rewriting the grammar - the cool part is that I can now decide whether to write it in P6 or P5

[05:03] <nothingmuch> so the kids will have a replacement for love

[05:03] *** alester is now known as petdance

[05:03] <stevan> actually the dog is the one who is most disturbed by my absence right now

[05:03] <fglock> nothingmuch :)

[05:04] <stevan> the kids have my parents to entertain them

[05:06] <clkao_> fglock!

[05:06] <fglock> clkao_: hi!

[05:07] <clkao_> fglock: i am making &?ROUTINE work

[05:07] <clkao_> do you plan to refactor the current emitter to different node classes or some sort? it's getting too huge

[05:08] <fglock> clkao_: the plan is to migrate to nothingmuch's emitter - ask him :)

[05:08] <fglock> I'm refactoring the grammar to emit something closer to p6ast

[05:10] <clkao_> ya, using the emitter, of course. but i meant the tree traversal part

[05:10] * nothingmuch winks at fglock

[05:10] * stevan wonders enjoys the meta-circularity of using a Moose based module to emit code which targets Moose

[05:11] <fglock> clkao_: I'm ok with refactoring the emitter

[05:11] <fglock> stevan: that's pretty close to happen

[05:11] <nothingmuch> fglock: we'll have a chat tomorrow when i'm at obra's, deal?

[05:12] <nothingmuch> i need a requirement list

[05:12] <nothingmuch> the p6ast is slightly closer to the metal than what I was targetting

[05:12] <nothingmuch> but is a pretty easy mapping

[05:12] <clkao_> fglock: also nnunley is interested in working on a c emitter

[05:12] <fglock> nothingmuch: the ast emitted by v6.pm is close to the grammar

[05:12] <nothingmuch> clkao_: you were msged on irc.perl.org

[05:13] <nothingmuch> fglock: i'm not sure what you mean, but what i've seen from v6.pm is pretty high level

[05:13] <fglock> clkao_: cool - I started working on one - I think it can be very useful for bulding low-level libraries

[05:13] <nothingmuch> which *is* what I'm working on

[05:13] <nothingmuch> although it's not that high up (parse tree)

[05:16] <fglock> nothingmuch: the v6.pm tree is the requirement list, kind of - do you need blessed nodes?

[05:16] <nothingmuch> fglock: i abuse them a lot for convenience

[05:16] <nothingmuch> can we punt this till tomorrow? i need to pack and sleep

[05:17] <fglock> what time? this is too late for me - about 10h earlier is ok

[05:17] <clkao_> ok, &?ROUTINE.name works

[05:17] <nothingmuch> err

[05:17] <clkao_> now to make CALLER::CALLER etc work

[05:17] <nothingmuch> hmm

[05:17] <nothingmuch> we land at 16:30 or so, i think

[05:17] <nothingmuch> or is that 14:30 or so?

[05:17] <nothingmuch> probably the latter

[05:18] <nothingmuch> hmm

[05:18] <nothingmuch> i think i can get you ~6 hrs earlier

[05:18] <nothingmuch> maybe even ~8 hrs earlier

[05:18] <fglock> clkao_: may I add you to the cpan v6.pm maintainers?

[05:18] <clkao_> fglock: sure!

[05:18] <fglock> nothingmuch: ok

[05:19] *** petdance left
[05:19] <clkao_> btw, caller().file is still parsed funnily

[05:20] <clkao_> oh, i accidentally fixed that along

[05:20] <clkao_> s/parsed/emitted/

[05:20] <fglock> clkao_: I'm refactoring the parser - I hope to fix methods and such

[05:20] <nothingmuch> =)

[05:21] <fglock> nothingmuch, stevan: may I add you to the cpan v6.pm maintainers?

[05:21] <stevan> fglock: sure

[05:22] <stevan> although I dont think I have done anything on it (at least not yet)

[05:22] <clkao_> fglock: i am committing my fix. the "call" and "method_call" emittion is nasty

[05:22] <nothingmuch> fglock: okay

[05:22] <fglock> stevan: it helps when people start reporting bugs :)

[05:23] <clkao_> i hope i didn't break other things. now testing..

[05:23] <stevan> fglock: okay :)

[05:24] <fglock> clkao_: better test before commit...

[05:26] <clkao_> it passes tests!

[05:26] <fglock> the cpan thing is done

[05:27] <clkao_> fglock: i can make caller().package work next. mostly runtime stuff for me. can you make regex and flag capture parse?

[05:27] <svnbot6> r11067 | clkao++ | Support &?ROUTINE and &?ROUTINE.name.

[05:27] <fglock> clkao_: I'm moving the statement syntax from Yapp to rules, it should be easier to maintain

[05:27] <clkao_> then we are down to 2 things to make test.pm work

[05:27] <clkao_> YAYA

[05:27] <clkao_> i will watch carefully and learn from that

[05:27] <clkao_> but now i need some sleep

[05:28] <fglock> I think I'll fork until it works

[05:28] <clkao_> in pX?

[05:28] <clkao_> should i merge my data::bind support changes before you branch?

[05:28] <clkao_> otherwise it can be nastier later

[05:31] <clkao_> the data::bind support needs a way to tell if the callee is builtin or other native p5 code.

[05:33] *** fglock_ joined
[05:34] <clkao_> fglock: did you see my irc lines?

[05:34] <svnbot6> r11068 | clkao++ | pull from perl5/PC-P6.

[05:35] <fglock_> clkao: I backlogged - sorry, the computer died - 3rd time today

[05:35] <fglock_> clkao_: can you make data::bind optional? I'm on windows, can't compile right now (I've got mingw, but it is not working)

[05:37] <clkao_> oh ok. i will try to make it so tomorrow

[05:37] <svnbot6> r11069 | clkao++ | * No capture for return yet.

[05:37] <svnbot6> r11069 | clkao++ | * No binding yet.

[05:37] <svnbot6> r11069 | clkao++ | * Requires Data::Bind.

[05:37] <clkao_> though it makes it a bit hard to test

[05:37] <clkao_> fglock_: how is it not working? what perl5 version are you using?

[05:37] <fglock_> activeperl - it is asking for some header files

[05:38] <clkao_> ya. you don't have those?

[05:39] <fglock_> maybe - I didn't look too hard yet - I had it working in PxPerl before

[05:40] <clkao_> ok. but i think we really need those to support named args

[05:40] <clkao_> but that'd be tomorrow (did I say that a while ago?)

[05:40] <fglock_> I'll  try to fix my installation tomorrow

[05:41] <fglock_> clkao_: do you know when do you have to use \( ) syntax ?

[05:42] <fglock_> is ($a):=($b) the same as \($a):=\($b) ?

[05:42] <clkao_> \() creates a capture

[05:43] <clkao_> i am not sure it can be lvalue

[06:00] <clkao_> wow, i am the top committer for the last 100 commits!

[06:00] <clkao_> (svk log --filter 'stats')++

[06:01] *** fglock joined
[06:03] <clkao_> Newest commit : 2006-07-02

[06:03] <clkao_> Oldest commit : 2005-02-06

[06:03] <clkao_> Commits: 11069

[06:03] <clkao_> Commits per day : 21.7

[06:03] <clkao_> Committer count: 157

[06:03] *** penk joined
[06:04] <clkao_> Most active committers:

[06:04] <clkao_>   - autrijus (2593)

[06:04] <clkao_>   - iblech   (1203)

[06:04] <clkao_>   - audreyt  (1016)

[06:04] <clkao_>   - fglock   (992)

[06:04] <clkao_>   - putter   (519)

[06:04] <clkao_> audreyt needs to work harder to beat autrijust

[06:04] <fglock> clkao_: would you commit a test for the rule syntax you need?

[06:05] <clkao_> simply ~~ s:P5:g/XXX/YYY/;

[06:05] <clkao_> i really should go to bed ;)

[06:05] <fglock> ok

[06:33] *** fglock left
[06:46] *** cmarcelo joined
[06:52] *** scook0 joined
[07:02] *** shachaf joined
[07:09] *** beppu joined
[07:30] *** visq joined
[07:30] *** Aankhen`` joined
[08:09] *** lisppaste3 joined
[08:19] *** marmic joined
[08:33] *** kane_ joined
[08:36] *** cmarcelo_ joined
[08:37] *** cmarcelo_ is now known as cmarcelo

[08:46] *** dduncan left
[09:12] *** iblechbot joined
[09:21] <marcus_> lala

[09:41] *** marmic joined
[09:46] *** larsen joined
[09:49] *** elmex joined
[09:52] *** kanru joined
[09:56] *** szbalint joined
[10:42] *** shachaf joined
[11:07] *** buetow joined
[11:12] *** drbean left
[11:13] *** drbean joined
[11:25] *** chris2 joined
[12:03] *** mauke_ joined
[12:18] *** mauke_ is now known as mauke

[12:58] *** elmex joined
[13:13] *** ludan joined
[13:30] *** tup joined
[13:34] *** penk joined
[13:53] *** cmarcelo left
[13:54] *** nothingmuch joined
[13:55] *** justatheory joined
[14:27] *** leptonix joined
[14:27] *** weinig|zzz is now known as weinig

[14:30] *** DaGo joined
[14:54] *** joshr joined
[15:11] *** lollan joined
[15:13] *** leptonix joined
[15:13] *** iblechbot joined
[15:34] *** leptonix joined
[15:38] *** buetow joined
[16:01] *** Debolaz joined
[16:01] *** Limbic_Region joined
[16:07] *** miyagawa joined
[16:39] *** fglock joined
[16:49] *** amnesiac joined
[16:49] *** justatheory joined
[16:52] *** diotalevi joined
[16:54] *** diotalevi joined
[17:24] *** MenTaLguY joined
[17:31] *** Odin- joined
[17:50] *** nothingmuch joined
[18:07] *** lisppaste3 joined
[18:14] <svnbot6> r11070 | clkao++ | Quick hack to make '&?CALLER::CALLER::ROUTINE' work.

[18:17] <svnbot6> r11071 | clkao++ |  r14948@ab (orig r11070):  clkao | 2006-07-02 14:13:38 -0400

[18:17] <svnbot6> r11071 | clkao++ |  Quick hack to make '&?CALLER::CALLER::ROUTINE' work.

[18:17] <clkao_> audreyt: \Foo->new()->something

[18:18] <audreyt> (\(Foo->new()))->something

[18:18] <clkao> i want \(foo->new->something)

[18:19] <audreyt> you get that, sorry

[18:19] <audreyt> Deparse was borken

[18:22] <audreyt> ?eval 'abc' ~~ 'bc'

[18:22] *** evalbot_11065 is now known as evalbot_11071

[18:22] <evalbot_11071> Bool::False

[18:24] <merlyn> audreyt - did you see that I got pugs working?  was a matter of chown -R on .ghc

[18:24] <merlyn> I'm going to be writing an article on p6 for linuxmag this weekend

[18:25] <audreyt> merlyn: oh cool

[18:25] <audreyt> excellent!

[18:25] <merlyn> basically just a textual form of the learning perl talk we gave

[18:25] <merlyn> quick intro, using the things we can already play with

[18:26] *** tup joined
[18:26] <merlyn> probably also starting with C<print "Hello, World!\n"> to show that not much has necessarily changed. :)

[18:27] <wolverian> then introduce say() and everyone will rejoice

[18:28] <merlyn> exactly

[18:28] <merlyn> I want to focus on how much perl5 really isn't going away, it's just getting a facelift, and most of everything everyone wants to keep is still there.

[18:29] <merlyn> like damian's exegesis, but in my style. :)

[18:30] <audreyt> :D

[18:30] <audreyt> merlyn++

[18:31] <merlyn> I'm more hungry for p6 to arrive now.  It still scares me as a businees owner, but at least I know more of why I want it to arrive sooner rather than later.

[18:32] <merlyn> I wish I had another N minutes per week to specifically contribute to a project, but I'm afraid it'll have be limited to doc review where I point out that .uniq is hard to pronounce

[18:32] <obra> merlyn: that's why getting p6 semantics into CPAN modules is so important.

[18:32] <obra> it'll provide an actual gentle upgrade path

[18:32] <merlyn> Now that brian and I are building training materials, we'll be looking specifically at things that don't get "spoken" well.

[18:33] <merlyn> hopefully, we can correct some of these design items before they get committed in hard stone, and everyone doing a code review will rejoice

[18:33] <theorbtwo> I don't see a problem pronouncing "uniq" as "unique"... or for that matter just as "uniq".

[18:33] <audreyt> yes.

[18:33] <ZuluOne> indeed

[18:33] <audreyt> Synopsis reviews, as the ones uri has been doing in the hackathon, is also a good way

[18:33] <obra> . o O { ubiq }

[18:33] <merlyn> You can pronounce it as "unique".  then I will type ".unique" and it won't work

[18:33] <ZuluOne> especially given the precedent

[18:33] <merlyn> that's the problem

[18:33] <audreyt> I like .unique, actually, since it's not unixy.

[18:34] <merlyn> if you're going to use an english word, it needs to be spelled that way

[18:34] <merlyn> and "pipe".  argh.  we're gonna wrestle on that one for sure.

[18:34] <MenTaLguY> I don't think there's a pressing need to unix-spel things, yeah

[18:34] <merlyn> pipe means "|" to millions of unix hackers.

[18:34] <merlyn> even if you say "pipe operator"

[18:34] <merlyn> they'll still think |

[18:34] <ZuluOne> You now seem to be arguing for the opposite viewpoint.

[18:35] *** justatheory joined
[18:35] <merlyn> no - I'm arguing for common meanings for things

[18:35] <merlyn> the "uniq" command in unix is actually fairly unknown

[18:35] <merlyn> but nearly everyone uses "|" at one point

[18:35] <ZuluOne> never

[18:35] <ZuluOne> Who hasn't heard of uniq?

[18:35] <merlyn> ZuluOne - surely you're jesting

[18:35] <MenTaLguY> This probably isn't the best place to ask that question

[18:35] <ZuluOne> no

[18:35] <merlyn> if not, you have a pretty narrow view

[18:36] <MenTaLguY> Probably everyone HERE has, but I don't think we're particularly representative

[18:36] <ZuluOne> Maybe just a pretty narrow set of friends.

[18:36] <merlyn> I work with "casual unix users" all the time

[18:36] <merlyn> almost all of them do "|" and call it "pipe"

[18:36] <merlyn> very few have ever typed "uniq"

[18:36] <ZuluOne> typing it isn't the problem

[18:36] <merlyn> I think we're talking an order of magnitude difference

[18:37] <merlyn> possibly even *two* orders of magnitude

[18:37] <merlyn> trust me on this as an instructor

[18:37] <merlyn> and as someone who has been around unix since 1977

[18:37] <ZuluOne> I can count the number of times I have *used* uniq on one hand, probably, but that doesn't mean I haven't heard of it.

[18:37] <merlyn> again ZuluOne - you're the rare one here

[18:37] <ZuluOne> nah, I'm well done

[18:37] <merlyn> heh

[18:38] * merlyn has another 3.6 hours to kill at CVG

[18:38] * merlyn patpats his EVDO card

[18:38] <MenTaLguY> what is it in p6 that uses "pipe" spelled out, btw?

[18:38] <merlyn> the specs

[18:38] <merlyn> they call ==> as pipe

[18:38] <MenTaLguY> oh.

[18:38] <merlyn> which means that everyone i scalling it that

[18:38] <MenTaLguY> ee, that is going to be brutal

[18:38] <merlyn> which meanss it'll get into error messages as that

[18:38] <theorbtwo> I suspect the "uniq" spelling comes from math originally, and unix got it from there.

[18:39] <merlyn> We need another name that means what ==> and <== does

[18:39] <merlyn> "tube" ? :)

[18:39] <MenTaLguY> channel?

[18:39] <ZuluOne> I don't think people will be calling ==> pipe when reading out programs.

[18:39] <ZuluOne> I certainly don't, when reading them in my head.

[18:39] <merlyn> ZuluOne - you've never been in code reviews or worked with someone over the phone then

[18:39] <merlyn> you need NAMES for all OPERATORS

[18:39] <merlyn> trust me

[18:39] <MenTaLguY> Zulu: what do you call it then?

[18:40] <ZuluOne> Especially given they go both ways.

[18:40] <lumi> Piping? Arrow-pipe? Channel?

[18:40] <theorbtwo> connector?

[18:40] <ZuluOne> I can't bring it to mind right now. Probably feedto and feedfrom

[18:40] <merlyn> pipe is nice because it's both a noun and a verb

[18:40] <merlyn> it'd be good to do another thing like that

[18:40] <ZuluOne> I will pay more attention next time I am talking to myself. :->

[18:40] <merlyn> that's just my gut

[18:40] <lumi> Like "channel"?

[18:40] <MenTaLguY> channel's the best alternative I've heard so far, but it'd be nice to distinguish ==> and <==

[18:41] <ZuluOne> like "I'm channelling $larry"?

[18:41] <fglock> audreyt: I'm rewriting the Yapp grammar to rules - it'll be only be used for precedence, so that it is closer to p6-on-parrot grammar

[18:41] <MenTaLguY> the other thing is that you can't really google for "==>"

[18:41] <MenTaLguY> it needs a distinct name for that reason :P

[18:42] <theorbtwo> Left channel and right channel works fine, I think.

[18:42] <audreyt> fglock: good good

[18:42] <merlyn> it'd have to be "channel left"

[18:42] <ZuluOne> wait

[18:42] <merlyn> to be verbed

[18:42] <theorbtwo> Or channel in and channel out.

[18:42] <merlyn> ugh "in" means which? :)

[18:42] <ZuluOne> Which way does a channel left go? I don't find it sufficiently unambiguous.

[18:42] <merlyn> I could see in meaning ==> or <==

[18:42] <merlyn> yeah

[18:42] <merlyn> those suck too

[18:42] <ZuluOne> indeed

[18:42] <MenTaLguY> hmm, actually googling for "==>" seems to break something

[18:42] <lumi> foo ==> bar :: foo channels in bar?

[18:42] <merlyn> heh

[18:42] <MenTaLguY> you don't get the normal "no results" page

[18:42] <merlyn> into

[18:42] *** Aankhen`` is now known as Aankhen-EP

[18:43] <theorbtwo> @foo ==> bar() -- channel @foo out to bar.

[18:43] <ZuluOne> to and from work, I think

[18:43] <lambdabot> Maybe you meant: faq todo yow

[18:43] <svnbot6> r11072 | clkao++ | * Emit for simple ~~ case (quotemeta exp2).

[18:43] <svnbot6> r11072 | clkao++ | * Don't bind yet for := when exp2 is not a scalar.

[18:43] <svnbot6> r11073 | clkao++ |  r14950@ab (orig r11072):  clkao | 2006-07-02 14:42:01 -0400

[18:43] <svnbot6> r11073 | clkao++ |  * Emit for simple ~~ case (quotemeta exp2).

[18:43] <svnbot6> r11073 | clkao++ |  * Don't bind yet for := when exp2 is not a scalar.

[18:43] <merlyn> too bad "push" and "pull" mean something

[18:43] <theorbtwo> @foo channel out bar parens.

[18:43] <lambdabot> Maybe you meant: faq todo yow

[18:43] <MenTaLguY> ==> and <== as the to and from operators

[18:43] <MenTaLguY> hmm

[18:43] <MenTaLguY> maybe

[18:43] <merlyn> see - I could read either of those as "to"

[18:43] <ZuluOne> not if you are reading code from left to right, surely

[18:43] <merlyn> maybe I'm just weird

[18:43] <MenTaLguY> heh.  or "to" and "fro" [sic]

[18:43] <merlyn> fro!

[18:43] <merlyn> g'fro dat data!

[18:44] <MenTaLguY> well, you know, "to and fro"?

[18:44] <merlyn> yeah I know

[18:44] <merlyn> I'd rather be home right now, but at least I had a 4 hour connection instead of a 32 minute connection

[18:44] <MenTaLguY> besides, the notion of a "fro" operator is perversely delightful

[18:44] <merlyn> and since I got in 90 minutes late, I'm pretty sure my flight later today would have been nearly that too

[18:45] <merlyn> and I would have missed the last flight home

[18:45] <ZuluOne> at result fro grep left curly dollar underscore greater than 2 close curly fro at input semi

[18:45] <merlyn> so anyway, I'll probably be popping in here a bit more often to ask questions and suggest nomenclature changes

[18:45] <merlyn> or at least bringing up the issues.

[18:45] <theorbtwo> Anyway, there's no reason we can't make .unique an alias for .uniq.

[18:45] <ZuluOne> or vice-versa

[18:45] <theorbtwo> (Or at least not much reason.)

[18:45] <fglock> merlyn: have you tried v6.pm?

[18:46] <merlyn> fglock - I just barely got pugs to work again yesterday :)

[18:46] <merlyn> I built pugs with an embedded parrot.  I presume that's the normal model.

[18:46] <fglock> merlyn: no pugs needed :) 'install v6' from cpan

[18:46] <merlyn> Oh - no, I don't think I have

[18:46] * merlyn scurries off

[18:47] <MenTaLguY> is aliasitude symmetric?

[18:47] <merlyn> fglock - do you have a cvs/svn that I should be tracking?

[18:47] <fglock> it's in pugs svn - perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Perl6/

[18:47] <merlyn> ok - I have that already

[18:48] <wolverian> theorbtwo, I think ruby shows that aliases aren't the solution.

[18:48] <merlyn> I'm building git-svn mirrors of all svns so that I can see what's been changing at 30K feet

[18:48] <merlyn> aliases actually suck

[18:48] <merlyn> because peopel who don't know the alias wonder what the difference is

[18:48] <merlyn> it's pretty distracting

[18:48] <theorbtwo> Hm.

[18:49] <merlyn> it also messes up googling

[18:49] <ZuluOne> true, but you're going to make *someone* unhappy whatever

[18:49] <wolverian> aliases are a slippery slope.

[18:49] <merlyn> but as a designer, you *choose* to make some people unhappy

[18:49] <merlyn> that's normal

[18:49] <MenTaLguY> most aliases in Ruby exist because the original name was determined to suck (or was ungrammatical english), but had to be kept for backwards compatibility

[18:49] <clkao_> fglock: hey. i pretty much got all runtime support for test.pm done. only need :$negate in capture and ~~ s/// now.

[18:49] <theorbtwo> How hard is it to just say "unique, that's u-n-i-q" -- or just pronounce "uniq".

[18:49] <merlyn> a langauge cannot be all things to all people

[18:49] <MenTaLguY> You don't really want to be designing in aliases from the beginning

[18:49] <clkao_> but the s// is tricky, involves '#' in it ;)

[18:50] <theorbtwo> I like uniq, but possibly that has something to do with the fact that I use the unix command uniq constantly.

[18:50] <merlyn> fglock - lots and lots of "use of uninitialized value in length" errors

[18:50] <merlyn> is that normal?

[18:50] <merlyn> perl is for far greater than unix geeks

[18:51] <merlyn> fglock - I've never seen more errors during installation and test where it still says "ok" :)

[18:52] <fglock> merlyn: no - try reinstalling Pugs-Compiler-Rule - check if tests pass

[18:52] <merlyn> I think you set the record. :)

[18:52] <merlyn> all of these from Pugs::Compiler::Rule line 24 and 48

[18:52] <merlyn> s/Compiler/Grammer/

[18:52] <merlyn> s/er/ar/

[18:53] <merlyn> when I installed it last, the tests passed just fine

[18:53] <merlyn> have you tested against 5.8.8?

[18:53] <merlyn> heh... 90 lines of warnings, then "... ok" :)

[18:53] <fglock> maybe PC-Rule Makefile.PL was not run? 5.8.8 here (windows)

[18:54] <merlyn> when I installed PCR, I didn't have a working pugs before

[18:54] <merlyn> so it used your files

[18:54] <merlyn> anyway, this is humorous

[18:54] <merlyn> I'll retest PCR in a second

[18:54] <merlyn> after this completes the tests successfully

[18:54] <fglock> Makefile.PL needs to be run in order to bootstrap the grammar (.pmc file)

[18:55] <merlyn> fglock CPAN.pm does what it does

[18:55] <merlyn> I didn't cheat on anything

[18:55] <merlyn> and yet I have PCR installed

[18:55] <merlyn> so Makefile.PL probably said "oh, you don't have pugs, we'll use this"

[18:56] <MenTaLguY> silent "oh, you don't have X, we'll just use Y" things tend to be dangerous

[18:56] <MenTaLguY> or at least maddening

[18:57] <fglock> v6.pm doesn't need pugs - there must be a different problem - Makefile.PL should report common problems, like an old PadWalker or an invalid .pmc file - maybe CPAN.pm can't see the errors?

[18:57] <clkao_> fglock: got a chance to see if data::bind works for you?

[18:58] <merlyn> well in any case, the tests here are passing

[18:58] <merlyn> just geting lots and lots of warnings

[18:59] <merlyn> as I said, almost comical

[18:59] <merlyn> I presume if things were broken, I would not be getting test success?

[18:59] <fglock> clkao_: not yet - I hope I can finish the grammar soon, than I'll try again

[19:00] <fglock> merlyn: no messages in Pugs::Compiler::Rule Makefile.PL?

[19:00] <merlyn> Uh - I can't test that yet

[19:00] <merlyn> I did think I got something like "you don't have pugs installed, so I'm not recompiling anything"

[19:00] <merlyn> I'm still waiting for v6 to finish installing

[19:01] <merlyn> since I'm getting 10s of thousands of warnings. :)

[19:01] <merlyn> once that's done, I'll go back and retest PCR

[19:02] <fglock> Do you have an older v6.pm in your system? I've been bitten by this

[19:02] <merlyn> I don't know

[19:02] <merlyn> but the test harness is supposed to push the real thing there

[19:02] <merlyn> perl -Mv6 didn't do what I wanted. :)

[19:03] <merlyn> it says "perl 6 wanted, you have only 5.8.8" :)

[19:03] <merlyn> ahh - perldoc -l v6 says nobody home

[19:03] <fglock> v6 is special - it doesn't follow the normal rules

[19:03] <merlyn> still waiting for millions of error messages to scroll by

[19:04] <theorbtwo> Do it again with 2>/dev/null

[19:04] <theorbtwo> ?

[19:04] <merlyn> so far, no test failures

[19:04] <merlyn> no point in restarting

[19:04] <merlyn> it's almost done I hope

[19:04] <theorbtwo> Ah.

[19:04] * theorbtwo is off to pick up some chinese food.

[19:05] <TreyHarris> merlyn: your discomfort with "to" and "fro/from" for the pipes--does the same discomfort exist with /<before ...>/ and /<after ...>/?

[19:05] <merlyn> up to test t/07-try

[19:05] <merlyn> TreyHarris - a bit

[19:05] <merlyn> how many more tests are there?

[19:05] <merlyn> I can't rememeber if its the text before me, or me before the text

[19:06] <merlyn> ahh there.  installed!

[19:06] <fglock> merlyn: I don't think it makes sense to wait for the tests if you are getting these messages

[19:06] <merlyn> all tests passed

[19:06] <merlyn> now I'll try PCR again

[19:06] <merlyn> Ugh - what's the name?

[19:07] <fglock> Pugs-Compiler-Rule

[19:07] <merlyn> got it

[19:07] <merlyn> I had 0.07 installed already

[19:07] <merlyn> and the tests there also get hundreds of warnings

[19:07] <merlyn> I don't think you've tested this on 5.8.8

[19:07] <TreyHarris> merlyn: i think, then, that Perl just needs to make a decision, make it consistent, and use it.  without making all the ops visually mnemonic, and naming them complicatedly ("channel from thing to left to thing to right"), at some point a decision should just be made and stuck to.  the problem in P5 and most other languages is that we have both left-associative and right-associative things that cognitively collide

[19:07] <fglock> would you reinstall PadWalker?

[19:08] <merlyn> "PadWalker is up to date 1.0"

[19:08] <fglock> is your Perl compiled with pmc support? see v6.pm pod

[19:08] <merlyn> probably not

[19:08] <merlyn> I have a stock perl

[19:09] <merlyn> 5.8.8 bleed

[19:09] <merlyn> soon to be 5.8.9 I hope :)

[19:09] <merlyn> all tests pass on padwalker too

[19:09] <merlyn> warning on t/closure because someone wrote a bad test

[19:10] <TreyHarris> how does one test for PMC support?

[19:10] <merlyn> squawk like a pirate. :)

[19:10] <fglock> http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=20152

[19:10] <lambdabot> Title: "#20152: can&#39;t find own compile method"

[19:10] <fglock> TreyHarris: looking

[19:11] <fglock> you should not have 'DPERL_DISABLE_PMC' in the perl config

[19:11] <merlyn> perl -V:'.*' | grep -i pmc

[19:11] <merlyn> I don't have that for sure

[19:12] <merlyn> ... Compile-time options: PERL_MALLOC_WRAP USE_LARGE_FILES USE_PERLIO

[19:13] <svnbot6> r11074 | clkao++ | v6.pm - Support caller().package.

[19:13] <clkao_> i think module::compile won't pass test if there's disable_pmc

[19:13] <merlyn> And I just installed Module::Compile

[19:13] <merlyn> Oh - does that make .pmc?

[19:13] <merlyn> that's cool

[19:13] <clkao_> yes.

[19:14] * merlyn makes note to use *that* for the SysAdmin column

[19:14] <clkao_> ingy's revenge on everyone hating spiffy

[19:15] *** DaGo joined
[19:15] *** Odin- joined
[19:15] <merlyn> so now that I have v6, what can I do? :)

[19:15] <TreyHarris> so, i don't understand, why does Perl 5 even need to know about PMC's?  is it futureproofing against ponie somehow?

[19:15] <diotalevi> The acronym predates parrot's pmcs.

[19:16] <fglock> TreyHarris: pmc = precompiled perl module

[19:16] <audreyt> TreyHarris: parrot .pmc files are never installed

[19:16] <merlyn> yes unfortunate collision of terms

[19:16] <TreyHarris> oh, ok.

[19:16] <clkao_> fglock: what grammar changes are you working on?

[19:17] <fglock> audreyt: any ideas for merlyn problem with PCR?

[19:17] <merlyn> perhaps the regex engine works differently

[19:17] <merlyn> but oddly, it still passes tests

[19:17] <clkao_> merlyn: perl -Ilib lib/v6.pm -e 'say "foo"'

[19:17] <fglock> clkao_: I'm moving the Yapp grammar in Operator.pm to Perl6.pm, and rewriting to Rule

[19:17] <clkao_> all of them?

[19:18] <fglock> all 'statement'

[19:18] <fglock> almost done :)

[19:18] <merlyn> can't open perl script "lib/v6.pm"

[19:18] <merlyn> did you mean something different?

[19:19] <fglock> merlyn: in Pugs-Compiler-Perl6/

[19:19] <merlyn> is there something I can just "do" in general?

[19:19] <merlyn> from a normal command line? :)

[19:19] <fglock> merlyn: would you paste the errors?

[19:19] <merlyn> ... Can't open perl script "lib/v6.pm": No such file or directory

[19:19] <merlyn> that error?

[19:19] <merlyn> or when testing PCR?

[19:19] <fglock> merlyn: PCR errors

[19:20] <merlyn> OK hold one

[19:20] <clkao_> perl `perldoc -l v6` -e 'say "foo"'

[19:20] <pasteling> "merlyn" at 70.217.181.166 pasted "from t/09 onward (the rest are the same)" (19 lines, 2K) at http://sial.org/pbot/18158

[19:21] <fglock> see the synopsis here http://search.cpan.org/~fglock/v6-pugs-0.002/lib/v6.pm

[19:21] <lambdabot> Title: "v6-pugs - an experimental Perl 6 implementation - search.cpan.org"

[19:21] <audreyt> merlyn:

[19:21] <audreyt> echo 'use v6-pugs;' > test.p6; echo 'say "Hi!"' >> test.p6; perl test.p6

[19:21] <merlyn> that clkao line is giving me hundreds of the same errors

[19:22] <Debolaz> audreyt: Any luck with the local installation issue?

[19:22] <merlyn> But it did finally say "foo"!

[19:22] *** MenTaLguY left
[19:22] <audreyt> merlyn: you have some env that turns -w on all the time?

[19:22] <audreyt> Debolaz: no, sorry, I havn't looked into prefix.

[19:22] <merlyn> No I don't

[19:23] <merlyn> I'm using 5.8.8 bleed though

[19:23] <clkao_> maybe the pcr on cpan is funny

[19:23] <audreyt> Debolaz: can you backlog into the summary in irc and collect it and post it to perl6-compiler?

[19:24] <audreyt> Debolaz: or add it to the TODO file

[19:25] <merlyn> Yeah, I can't think of anything unusual I'm doing

[19:25] <merlyn> I'm compiling bleed about every third or fourth day

[19:25] <fglock> you should have a hello_world.pl in the installation dir - can you run it? perl hello_world.pl

[19:25] <merlyn> in PCR?

[19:25] <fglock> PC-P6

[19:26] <merlyn> uh - be clearer

[19:26] <fglock> or perl -Ilib hello_world.pl

[19:26] <merlyn> I don't have hello_world.pl in my cpan build area

[19:26] <fglock> cd Pugs-Compiler-Perl6; perl -Ilib hello_world.pl

[19:26] <merlyn> ahh v6-pugs

[19:26] <fglock> yup

[19:26] <merlyn> yeah, that's giving me hundreds of errorrs again

[19:27] <fglock> does it generate a hello_world.plc file?

[19:27] <merlyn> yes, it didi

[19:27] <merlyn> and it says "hello, world" at the end

[19:27] <audreyt> s/errors/warnings/ :)

[19:27] <merlyn> you just gotta get rid of those warnings. :)

[19:28] <merlyn> who could be turning on warnings globally?

[19:28] <merlyn> now that I think of it, that *does* seem odd.

[19:28] <merlyn> nothing is supposed to have that power except -w

[19:28] <Debolaz> audreyt: I don't subscribe to email lists and usenet posts are filtered afaik.

[19:28] <audreyt> merlyn: you alias perl to -w?

[19:28] <merlyn> No I don't

[19:29] <audreyt> Debolaz: commit to TODO, then? or send me a hiveminder ticket

[19:29] <merlyn> in fact, I generally hate -w

[19:29] <Debolaz> audreyt: Will see if it can be done. :)

[19:29] <audreyt> ok :)

[19:29] <Debolaz> But do I have commit access?

[19:29] <merlyn> this is a perl I built two days ago

[19:29] <audreyt> merlyn: upgrade Text::Blanced?

[19:30] <merlyn> from this rsync://ftp.linux.activestate.com/perl-5.8.x/

[19:30] <merlyn> I have the latest of that

[19:30] <merlyn> the latest of Text::Balanced too

[19:30] <audreyt> merlyn: ok, try svn up pugs

[19:30] <svnbot6> r11075 | audreyt++ | * stopgap measure to allow Text::Balanced to return undef stuff

[19:31] <audreyt> and install the perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Rule/ there

[19:31] <audreyt> Debolaz: what's your email addr?

[19:32] <merlyn> that's in svn.perl.org/perl6 right?

[19:32] <merlyn> I'm not seeing anything new

[19:32] <audreyt> merlyn: the mirror takes some time; best to switch svn checkout

[19:32] <audreyt> to

[19:32] <audreyt> http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs

[19:32] <lambdabot> Title: "Revision 11075: /"

[19:32] <merlyn> ahh - I'm not tracking that

[19:33] <merlyn> lemme see if I can switch it

[19:33] <audreyt> please recheckout

[19:33] <merlyn> wait - is /pugs there the same as /perl6 ?

[19:33] <merlyn> or just some part of it?

[19:33] <audreyt> the perl6/pugs/ part of it

[19:34] <merlyn> Ugh - I can't switch easily then

[19:34] <audreyt> just recheckout...

[19:35] <merlyn> svn co http:// ... ?

[19:35] <merlyn> ok that's working

[19:36] <merlyn> But that now explains why i waswn't seeing the updates to docs as quick as they were showing up here. :)

[19:36] <audreyt> Debolaz: did you give me your email addr?

[19:37] <merlyn> pulling now

[19:38] <merlyn> does this archive contain anything that isn't in svn.perl.org/perl6 ?

[19:38] <audreyt> Debolaz: note if you /msg me without identifying to nickserv I can't see the msg :)

[19:39] <merlyn> does this archive contain anything that isn't in svn.perl.org/perl6/pugs ? [i mean]

[19:39] <audreyt> merlyn: no, they should be identical

[19:39] <merlyn> but just delayed

[19:39] <merlyn> ok

[19:39] * merlyn watches many thousands of filenames whip by

[19:39] * merlyn is happy he has his EVDO card

[19:40] <merlyn> the airline lounge where I'm located has a special drink during 4-7pm only

[19:40] <merlyn> I saw the sign and said "too bad it's not 4pm"

[19:40] <merlyn> he said "it's 4pm *somewhere*" :)

[19:41] <theorbtwo> (Jimmy Buffet)++

[19:41] <merlyn> checked out

[19:42] <merlyn> no META.yml :)

[19:42] <merlyn> "make all test install"

[19:42] <merlyn> no warnings!

[19:42] <audreyt> good then.

[19:42] <merlyn> farkin' a you did it

[19:42] <merlyn> what's different?

[19:42] <audreyt> no warnings uninitialized.

[19:42] * audreyt shrugs

[19:42] <merlyn> heh

[19:43] <theorbtwo> Did you put it in a small scope?

[19:43] <merlyn> perhaps some warnings are on by default now

[19:43] <merlyn> perhaps p5p needs to know this is a Bad Thing

[19:43] <audreyt> theorbtwo: in that file all subs use Text::Balanced and trigger warnings

[19:43] <audreyt> and there are already no warnings once on top

[19:43] <theorbtwo> Oh.  Nevermind, then.

[19:43] <merlyn> maybe they broke the warnings mechanism

[19:44] *** nothingmuch joined
[19:44] <fglock> audreyt: btw, you are PCR comaintainer

[19:44] <audreyt> cool

[19:44] <audreyt> danke

[19:44] <theorbtwo> merlyn: IIRC, there was a patch recently to fix certian cases where an uninit warning wasn't thrown due to a bug.

[19:45] <fglock> merlyn: perldoc v6 should work now

[19:45] <audreyt> theorbtwo: that sounds definitely like it.

[19:45] <merlyn> I still don't understand how that commandline there could work

[19:45] <merlyn> perl -Ilib lib/v6.pm

[19:46] <merlyn> unless you were in the RIGHT directory

[19:46] <merlyn> is that presumed?

[19:46] <audreyt> yeah.

[19:46] <merlyn> in which case it should say so

[19:46] <merlyn> otherwise, it's a broken synopsis

[19:46] <fglock> sure - it needs to be replaced by a normal script

[19:46] <merlyn> I know there's no lib/v6.pm from my home directory

[19:46] <merlyn> so that really isn't going to work at all

[19:46] <clkao> `perldoc -l v6.pm`

[19:46] <clkao> ;)

[19:48] <audreyt> there needs to be a way to make

[19:48] <audreyt> perl -Mv6-pugs -e ...

[19:48] <audreyt> work

[19:48] <audreyt> but I can't think of a way yet.

[19:49] <audreyt> (problem is that @ARGV info isn't available to -M)

[19:49] <audreyt> or we giveup and install bin/perl6 ;)

[19:49] <audreyt> (would be bad, so j/k)

[19:50] <fglock> how about bin/lrep

[19:51] <Debolaz> audreyt: Sorry, switched window. :)

[19:52] <Debolaz> audreyt: My email address is [email@hidden.address] (Which also is the explanation for why I don't sign up for mailing lists unless most posts are interesting)

[19:52] <audreyt> fglock: that would work, but I somehow still want to keep v6

[19:53] <audreyt> but lrep is the best name we've got so far.

[19:53] <fglock> sure

[19:53] <clkao> fglock: if you are killing the yapp grammar - i have changes to the signature strucutre ,and splat => is_slurpy

[19:53] <fglock> I mean, sure == v6

[19:53] <clkao> other than that it's all in emitter

[19:54] <fglock> clkao_: ok - I'll check it before merging - it is taking more time than expected

[19:56] *** shachaf joined
[19:57] <audreyt> Debolaz: both hiveminder and openfoundry intivations are sent

[19:58] <clkao_> audreyt: is there a pugs group on hiveminder?

[19:58] <audreyt> clkao_: yes and you are in it

[19:59] <audreyt> or at least invited to it

[19:59] <audreyt> Debolaz: you can eg add the context information needed to get the --prefix done form irc to "up for grabs" in http://hiveminder.com/groups/38/unowned_tasks

[19:59] <lambdabot> Title: "Hiveminder - Get busy!"

[20:01] <TreyHarris> i never got a hiveminder invite...

[20:01] <TreyHarris> i got an openfoundry one.

[20:02] <audreyt> sent

[20:04] <TreyHarris> hm.  i guess i gotta contact my email admin and get him to check the spam quarantine.

[20:05] <ingy> hola

[20:11] <fglock> ingy: hola que tal

[20:31] <Debolaz> Where are the channel logs at?

[20:31] <audreyt> miyagawa: http://balloon.hobix.com/

[20:31] <lambdabot> Title: "Balloon. (Scripty postcards.)"

[20:31] <audreyt> Debolaz: irc.pugscode.org

[20:41] *** DaGo joined
[21:09] <lumi> How does one join this hiveminder?

[21:10] <audreyt> very carefully

[21:10] <lumi> Oh my

[21:10] <audreyt> trying to do a batch invite

[21:14] *** elmex joined
[21:19] <audreyt> lumi: invitation sent

[21:22] *** gaal_ joined
[21:29] <lumi> Thank you

[21:53] *** DaGo joined
[21:59] <audreyt> np :)

[22:02] *** cognominal joined
[22:11] *** Debolaz joined
[22:19] *** kanru2 joined
[22:40] *** ramzi joined
[22:51] *** MenTaLguY joined
[22:56] *** fglock joined
[23:00] <fglock> clkao: finished rewriting the grammar - it's very slow to load, will need to add precompilation soon

[23:13] <audreyt> TimToady: ::?CLASS -- is it still needed?

[23:13] <audreyt> isn't it just the same as $?CLASS?

[23:13] <svnbot6> r11076 | fglock++ | px/fglock - v6.pm statement grammar rewritten from Yapp to Rule

[23:13] <audreyt> gaal also noticed there's no ::?GRAMMAR though there is $?GRAMMAR.

[23:13] <audreyt> fglock++ fglock++

[23:14] <audreyt> TimToady: also what does @?LABEL mean?

[23:17] *** Debolaz2 joined
[23:26] *** hubertb joined
[23:28] <clkao> fglock!

[23:28] <svnbot6> r11077 | gaal++ | * p6ast - reasonably close enough to start hacking?

[23:28] <clkao> i might look into doing precompiling

[23:29] <fglock> clkao: I committed to px - I'm going through the tests now

[23:29] <audreyt> gaal++

[23:29] <audreyt> yay

[23:29] <clkao_> fglock: OOOH you are not branching with svk?

[23:30] <fglock> clkao_: I could not get installed here

[23:30] <fglock> one sec - I'll see what's the error

[23:31] <clkao_> fglock: and you are not using a svn cp either... this will make merging a bit painful

[23:32] <fglock> I don't have svn - I use tortoise-svn

[23:32] <clkao_> (!)

[23:32] <nothingmuch> fglock: btw, i'm all yours

[23:32] <fglock> windows is hard to use...

[23:32] <nothingmuch> windows--

[23:32] <nothingmuch> maybe you can pull it off with cygwin?

[23:33] <nothingmuch> oh wait, instead of checking for you if svk supports windows

[23:33] <nothingmuch> i'll let clkao

[23:33] <nothingmuch> okay

[23:33] <nothingmuch> he's too slow

[23:33] <nothingmuch> http://svk.elixus.org/?SVKWin32

[23:33] <lambdabot> Title: "SVKWin32 - Kwiki"

[23:33] <clkao> there's windows binary

[23:34] <clkao> i will try to manually add a merge ticket for you, before we all lost track

[23:35] <fglock> I've got a slow computer, with windows, and internet over phone - if it works here, it will work anywhere

[23:35] <clkao_> fglock: do you know which revision you based on

[23:36] <clkao_> before my changes - r11062?  or after any of them?

[23:36] <nothingmuch> fglock: if you have dialup you *REALLY* want svk

[23:36] <pasteling> "fglock" at 200.102.126.175 pasted "SVK install error" (32 lines, 1.5K) at http://sial.org/pbot/18168

[23:37] <fglock> clkao_: checking

[23:37] <clkao_> fglock: just use the binary

[23:38] <fglock> clkao_: downloading

[23:39] <clkao_> fglock: i think you are based the last change you had.

[23:40] <clkao_> fglock: are the t-old things dead?

[23:40] <nothingmuch> fglock: ping me

[23:41] <fglock> ping

[23:42] <fglock> clkao_: I just removed the things I haven't changed

[23:42] <fglock> sorry for the mess

[23:44] <fglock> nothingmuch: pinging you

[23:44] <nothingmuch> fglock: okay

[23:44] <nothingmuch> so ping me again in ~2 minutes because I need to pee

[23:44] <nothingmuch> and then we'll talk about Perl::Generate and see how I can make it not suck for you

[23:44] <fglock> ok

[23:44] <svnbot6> r11078 | clkao++ | Stick a svk:merge ticket so we can track fglock's branch for merging.

[23:45] <fglock> download will take about 1h

[23:45] *** mdiep_ joined
[23:46] <clkao> orz

[23:46] <audreyt> oy, initial sync will take forever

[23:47] <nothingmuch> fglock: you may ping me now

[23:47] <clkao_> fglock: don't worry, cleaned up a bit for you

[23:48] <clkao_> fglock: what's the parsing state? i see 04-if not parsed

[23:48] <svnbot6> r11079 | clkao++ | Correct Makefile.PL to use module::install from the right place so we

[23:48] <svnbot6> r11079 | clkao++ | can actually run the tests.

[23:50] <fglock> clkao_: tests are running real slow - I'm working on t\03 now

[23:51] <clkao> fglock: oh ok. but it looks good. byebye yapp

[23:53] *** buubot joined
[23:56] <fglock> nothingmuch: ping!

[23:57] <nothingmuch>  pong

[23:58] <fglock> re Perl::Generate - it would be nice if it could follow the v6.pm structure, but it is more important to be compatible with the other backends too

[23:58] <meppl> gute nacht

[23:59] <nothingmuch> i don't know 100% what is the v6.pm structure is right now

[23:59] <nothingmuch> i need to go over this with you

[23:59] <fglock> it generates a statement list, which has

