[00:00] <fglock> for/if/sub/method/class/...

[00:00] <nothingmuch> okay

[00:00] <ingy> hola

[00:00] <nothingmuch> that sounds pretty consistent with what I have

[00:00] <ingy> hi audreyt

[00:00] <nothingmuch> hi ingy

[00:00] <fglock> ... block/expression

[00:01] <ingy> hi nuffin

[00:01] <fglock> hi ingy

[00:01] <clkao> ingy: you've done the generator

[00:01] <clkao> ?

[00:02] <nothingmuch> ingy: clkao was pointing me at ACME::Goto::Line but he knows NOTHING

[00:02] <nothingmuch> RIGHT CLKAO?!

[00:02] <clkao_> ya

[00:02] *** bsb joined
[00:02] <fglock> and these nodes can have other nodes inside (that's it, mostly) - sub declarations are a bit complex because of the attributes, etc

[00:02] <nothingmuch> hola bsb

[00:02] <bsb> hey nothingmuch

[00:02] <lumi> Hi bsb

[00:03] <bsb> hi lumi

[00:03] <ingy> hi fglock

[00:04] <fglock> hi bsb

[00:04] <fglock> hi lumi

[00:04] <nothingmuch> hi fglock

[00:04] <nothingmuch> hi lumi

[00:04] <nothingmuch> hi ingy

[00:07] <ingy> hi clkao

[00:09] <fglock> so there is nothingmuch in the v6.pm syntax tree

[00:10] *** frederico joined
[00:14] <nothingmuch> fglock: i'm going to dive into v6

[00:14] <nothingmuch> give me 10 mins

[00:14] <nothingmuch> but a friend of mine is having a nervous breakdown on MSN, and i'm on the receiving end, so my latency will be bad

[00:14] <ingy> haha

[00:14] <fglock> ok - maybe a possible path is progressive migration

[00:14] <fglock> k

[00:14] <ingy> is that friend me?

[00:17] <nothingmuch> fglock: yes, i'm for it

[00:17] <nothingmuch> ingy: no

[00:17] <nothingmuch> you are just having a code breakdown

[00:17] <audreyt> nothingmuch++

[00:19] *** hikozaemon joined
[00:21] <clkao> nothingmuch: you can dive to v6 with me as well

[00:21] <nothingmuch> clkao: okay

[00:22] <nothingmuch> i'll tak e you up on that once i'm done having my conversation

[00:27] *** tup joined
[00:35] *** ludan joined
[00:35] *** stevan joined
[00:37] <fglock> clkao: svk is working now

[00:37] <ludan> hi

[00:37] <stevan> good-m??se all

[00:37] <ludan> clkao: how are you? do you remember me? we met in Pisa

[00:37] <ingy> hi stevan

[00:37] <stevan> hullo ingy

[00:37] * stevan is very tired from 12 hours of travel,.. half of which was improvised

[00:38] <clkao_> fglock: you might want to have a mirror for the last 100 revisions only

[00:38] <clkao> ludan!!

[00:38] <ludan> :D

[00:38] <ludan> clkao: how is going?

[00:39] <clkao> ludan: ok, hackathon'ing

[00:39] <ingy> audreyt: ping

[00:39] <ludan> clkao: i'm in the netherlands now

[00:39] <clkao> oh

[00:39] <ludan> are you always in London?

[00:40] <audreyt> pong

[00:40] * ingy will add .xxxc support to M::C on the plane

[00:40] <ingy> audreyt: did you get my msg?

[00:41] <ludan> i've to go to sleep now...read you tomorrow guys

[00:41] <ludan> bye

[00:42] *** ludan left
[00:43] <fglock> ingy: can M::C touch the pmc file when Makefile.PL runs, so that we can distribute precompiled pmc?

[00:43] <audreyt> that's what pmc_support does in M::I

[00:43] <ingy> fglock: it does

[00:44] <ingy> fglock: see orz.pm

[00:44] <fglock> ok!

[00:44] * ingy catches flight

[00:48] <gaal> audreyt: is Noop and Exp or a Stmt? (or both?)

[00:48] <audreyt> Exp

[00:48] <audreyt> anything that can happen at rhs of assignment

[00:48] <audreyt> is exp

[00:49] <gaal> so ($x, undef, $z) = @blurp has a noop in the tree?

[00:49] <audreyt> it's illegal

[00:49] <audreyt> ($x, *, $z) = @blurp

[00:49] <audreyt> is it

[00:49] <gaal> ok

[00:50] <nothingmuch> clkao: ping-ish after zev

[00:51] <gaal> hm. where does old Exp's Prim go now?

[00:52] <gaal> and parse error (NonTerm), can that stay Exp?

[00:53] <audreyt> NonTerm is no longer used.

[00:53] <audreyt> Prim... is interesting

[00:53] <audreyt> thinking

[00:54] <audreyt> probably still needs to be there

[00:54] <audreyt> probably

[00:56] <clkao> nothingmuch: after i cool down my laptop and myself

[01:00] *** ajs_home joined
[01:02] <gaal> is label really Indetifier or can it be Maybe Identifier?

[01:03] <audreyt> an empty label?

[01:04] <audreyt> Set Identifier ?

[01:04] <audreyt> Maybe Identifier?

[01:04] <audreyt> I think Maybe is it. maybe.

[01:05] <gaal> Set makes no sense to me? But the other two both work. since we don't patmatch against it a lot I thought Maybe can make more formal sense

[01:06] <gaal> .oO( Indentifier? Attack of the tab keys )

[01:06] <audreyt> Identifier means we'll use "null" as Nothing

[01:06] <audreyt> formal is fine. let's do that.

[01:07] <gaal> k

[01:10] <svnbot6> r11080 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6.pm - fixed t\03-equal.t

[01:10] <audreyt> whew

[01:10] * audreyt is done with Jifty for the day

[01:10] <audreyt> however it's also rather late now :/

[01:11] * audreyt decides to 1)shower 2)sleep and resume pugshacking tomorrow

[01:12] <obra> sounds sane

[01:12] <obra> though it's not That late

[01:12] <obra> ;)

[01:16] <rw-rw-r--> pugshacking sounds really dirty out of context...

[01:20] <audreyt> true.

[01:21] *** mdiep__ joined
[01:21] *** scook0 joined
[01:21] <audreyt> fglock: try your grant again at TPF?

[01:22] <fglock> audreyt: sure

[01:27] *** weinig is now known as weinig|sleep

[01:48] <nothingmuch> clkao: ping

[01:49] <clkao> nothingmuch: pong

[01:49] <nothingmuch> v6

[01:49] <nothingmuch> ??

[01:49] <nothingmuch> meh

[01:49] <nothingmuch> i'm not that restless, i just can't type

[01:50] <fglock> uh?

[01:51] *** amnesiac joined
[01:51] <nothingmuch> fglock: hu

[01:56] <gaal> audreyt: we forgot Param traits (is rw etc.). data ParamTrait = TraitRW | TraitCopy | {- other common ones -} | TraitSimple Identifier | TraitArg Identifier [Value]

[01:56] <gaal> ?

[01:56] * nothingmuch looks at clkao  in an insulted manner

[01:56] * nothingmuch begs for attention

[01:57] * gaal looks at nothingmuch in a mooselike manner

[01:57] <audreyt> gaal: sounds good.

[01:59] <gaal> elkcellent.

[02:02] <bsb> Is sprintf still around in p6?  or has it been rethunk somehow?

[02:03] <gaal> hmm. likewise code traits, but should those be on a SimpleCode or on named code nodes?

[02:03] <gaal> hey bsb. I think it's still in but you can also do $smth.as()

[02:05] <bsb> I've been having to look at Python, and they have % as a sprintf like operator

[02:05] <audreyt> bsb: it's .as()

[02:05] <audreyt> but sprintf is still there

[02:05] <bsb> and they have named params to formatting

[02:06] <bsb> "%(name)02s" or something

[02:06] <bsb> thought there might be a capture <-> sprintf synergy

[02:06] <bsb> which Syn has .as()?

[02:07] <bsb> .. s02

[02:27] <gaal> do subroutine PRE and POST blocks receive arguments?

[02:28] <gaal> (I'm presuming they do not)

[02:30] <TreyHarris> gaal: they had better, if they're going to fulfill the DBC stuff that I thought was their raison d'etre.

[02:30] <TreyHarris> if you're talking about can they see the subroutine's arguments

[02:31] <gaal> hm. so implicitly same signaure as the do block?

[02:32] <gaal> (the "do" block is the main sub part)

[02:32] <TreyHarris> yes, i would assume so.  in DBC, PRE is supposed to be used to set preconditions that must be met for the sub to work correctly, and POST expresses postconditions that must be met for the sub to successfully complete.  they may both be keyed to the arguments, but they shouldn't get anything apart from what the do block gets

[02:33] <TreyHarris> (the idea being that in DBC you don't have to read the subroutine to ensure you're meeting the API, just look at the pres and posts.  it's also assumed that in production, you may turn pres and posts off for performance, they're not supposed to have side-effects.)

[02:34] <gaal> ...which leads me to wonder whether they are not represented internally as traits at all but rather as fields in a Code data type

[02:34] <gaal> TreyHarris: yes, you're making sense to me

[02:34] <TreyHarris> gaal: is that a polite way of saying, "i've got it already, now shut up"? :-)

[02:35] <gaal> well, if I were *polite* I'd say thanks

[02:35] <gaal> ...thanks!

[02:35] <TreyHarris> hee

[02:38] <TreyHarris> the only weird thing about DBC preconditions and postconditions is that both are stacked from most derived to least derived method, but pre's are OR'd together, and posts are AND'd together.  the idea being that if the precondition of Dog::praise is "have food ready", the precondition of Labrador::eat must allow you to obtain simply by having food ready, but it might also let you "have a hand ready to pet with"

[02:40] <TreyHarris> in other words, in pure DBC, while you may decide whether a subclassed method calls its supermethod or not, you cannot choose to avoid calling your superclassed pre- and postconditions.  dunno if Larry wants to relax that requirement though.

[02:40] <gaal> should precendence and associativity be represented just as Yet Another Typed Trait on code? I'm not sure if traits should be [CodeTrait] or a map; some seem to accept multiple values, some none.

[02:41] <TreyHarris> gaal: i'm not sure i understand the implications of either choice.

[02:42] <gaal> the first gives flexibility and possibly poor performance and somewhat clumsy code.

[02:42] *** reZo joined
[02:42] <gaal> background, we're refactoring the pugs AST.

[02:43] <gaal> my question was primarily aimed at audreyt but apparently she's sleeping already

[02:44] <gaal> (though I haven't seen evidence to that effect)

[02:45] <TreyHarris> she just sent mail to p6-l

[02:46] <TreyHarris> so jump up and down and wave, she might see you :-)

[02:47] <gaal> Ah, so there is evidence she's asleep. There you go :)

[02:47] <TreyHarris> ah, coding is her waking activity and emailing is her sleeping one?

[02:48] <audreyt> gaal: prec is best stored as a rational number

[02:48] <audreyt> fixity is enumerated

[02:48] <gaal> not exactly... but we're used to seeing her after she sleeps.

[02:48] <gaal> hi audreyt

[02:49] <audreyt> hi, and btw I'm sleeping :)

[02:49] <miyagawa> lol

[02:49] <audreyt> gaal: Code should admit fixity and prec and explicit fields

[02:49] <gaal> audreyt: but how is the traitbad stored?

[02:49] <audreyt> the idea is all typed info we get on compile time

[02:49] <audreyt> we use distinct fields

[02:49] <audreyt> to make casing easier

[02:50] <audreyt> and all the usertags we just lump together in a set or map

[02:50] <gaal> s/d/g/

[02:50] <audreyt> I'd say just a Map really

[02:50] <audreyt> Map Identifier Val

[02:50] <audreyt> Map Ident Val

[02:50] <gaal> (renamed to Ident)

[02:50] <gaal> hah

[02:51] <nothingmuch> .'×Ÿ×ž13

[02:51] * audreyt dreams that she is "audreyt" on freenode and IRC'ing on #perl6

[02:51] <gaal> nothingmuch: ×ž×•×¡

[02:51] <audreyt> kinda like Zhuang-Zhou and the butterfly

[02:51] <nothingmuch> ×ž×•×¡

[02:52] <obra> audreyt: can you also dream that p6 is done

[02:52] <obra> ?

[02:52] *** robkinyon joined
[02:53] * gaal is getting kinda sleepy too... more hacking tomorrow I guess

[02:53] * gaal dreams of lucid dreams

[02:54] <obra>   tomorrow, we'll hack from $office

[03:00] *** lisppaste3 joined
[03:00] <audreyt> obra: p6 will be done when I wake up from it :)

[03:19] <svnbot6> r11081 | cmarcelo++ | * HsJudy minor tweaks: pjerr don't need to be IO type, new

[03:19] <svnbot6> r11081 | cmarcelo++ | test program.

[03:21] <obra> audreyt: :)

[03:22] <audreyt> gaal: can I safely turn off my computer?

[03:25] <clkao_> audreyt: ;)

[03:32] <gaal> audreyt: I'll log out

[03:32] <gaal> done

[03:36] <audreyt> :) &

[03:59] <svnbot6> r11082 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - passes 15/22 test files

[04:02] <clkao_> fglock++

[04:26] *** fglock left
[04:36] <nothingmuch> kolibrie: i screwed up and only remember the picture after we turned in our keyes

[04:36] <nothingmuch> nothingmuch--

[04:50] <clkao_> please do not karma yourself

[04:50] *** xern joined
[04:52] *** shachaf joined
[05:41] *** nothingmuch joined
[05:43] *** nothingmuch joined
[05:48] *** DebolazX joined
[06:11] *** Aankhen`` joined
[06:11] <svnbot6> r11084 | cmarcelo++ |  r11098@roma:  cmarcelo | 2006-07-03 03:05:46 -0300

[06:11] <svnbot6> r11084 | cmarcelo++ |  * HsJudy: build elems, keys, toList and map on top of a single

[06:11] <svnbot6> r11084 | cmarcelo++ |  map_ function which properly iterates in the Judy type.

[06:12] *** iblechbot joined
[06:15] *** cmarcelo joined
[06:20] <cmarcelo> how do you people push changes from a local branch to a mirror in svk? I did with "svk push" and was expecting $EDITOR open up but it didnt.. =P

[06:30] *** Entonian joined
[06:32] <bsb> cmarcelo: there is a way, I forget it.  see: svk help sm

[06:33] <clkao> svk sm -fl

[06:34] <cmarcelo> tks

[07:03] <ingy> hola

[07:16] <ingy> audreyt: I put a new Module::Compile on CPAN

[07:16] <ingy> audreyt: and a new Compile::Generators

[07:16] <ingy> audreyt: the M::C handles non-module files

[07:17] <ingy> audreyt: so adjust v6.pm accordingly

[07:17] <ingy> audreyt: I can try to adjust it, but pugs was failing to build last time I tried

[07:28] *** elmex joined
[07:41] *** shachaf joined
[07:45] *** cmarcelo left
[07:54] *** kanru joined
[07:57] * ingy give up on making Pugs::Compile::Perl6 pass tests

[08:04] *** drrho joined
[08:42] *** mdiep___ joined
[08:44] *** shachaf joined
[08:51] *** jiing joined
[09:09] *** kanru joined
[09:24] *** shachaf_ joined
[09:26] *** buetow joined
[09:42] *** froh-doh joined
[09:48] <meppl> guten morgen

[10:15] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[10:30] *** rashakil joined
[11:07] *** mj41_ joined
[11:12] *** Debolaz joined
[11:17] *** shachaf joined
[11:29] *** chris2 joined
[11:37] *** szbalint joined
[11:45] <audreyt> ingy: you don't have to build pugs

[11:45] <audreyt> ingy: just adjust in perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Perl6

[11:46] <nothingmuch> morning

[11:47] *** Bleadof joined
[11:48] <audreyt> my room's AC drops to 70F automagically at night

[11:48] <audreyt> so I was frozen awake again (for 6 days consecutively)

[11:48] <audreyt>  trying to get some more sleep now

[11:51] <nothingmuch> audreyt: i woke up from cold + nightmare (

[11:51] <nothingmuch> Data::Bind::Compile(

[11:51] <audreyt> v6 already do D::B::C

[11:51] <audreyt> wouldn't hurt to abstract it out a bit into its own layer though

[11:51] <nothingmuch> if you have nothing to cook yousrelf with my sleeping bag made sleeping very hard for me in the last week

[11:51] <audreyt> that way Perl6::Subs can use it

[11:52] <nothingmuch> i guess Per6::Subs should M::C and use D::B

[11:52] *** shachaf joined
[11:52] <audreyt> chip gave me P6::Subs comaint

[11:52] <audreyt> so I'm thinking about releasing it as a Module::Compile subclass

[11:52] <nothingmuch> okay =)

[11:53] <nothingmuch> (re sleeping bag: it was too warm)

[11:54] <audreyt> too /warm/?

[11:54] <nothingmuch> yes

[11:54] <nothingmuch> that was my problem despite crazy AC

[11:54] * audreyt is green with envy and purple with frozeness

[11:55] <nothingmuch> you can prolly use it as a blanket

[11:55] <nothingmuch> i can bring it up for you

[11:55] <audreyt> that sounds good

[11:55] <audreyt> &

[11:57] * nothingmuch waits for everyone to wake up

[12:05] *** mauke_ joined
[12:06] *** shachaf_ joined
[12:14] *** Limbic_Region joined
[12:20] *** mauke_ is now known as mauke

[12:31] * gaal meows

[12:37] *** weinig|sleep is now known as weinig

[12:43] <visq> gaal: hello !  you et.al. started refactoring the Haskell implementation ?

[12:48] *** vytautas joined
[12:48] <gaal> visq: yes, but the first commit won't be for a while

[12:49] <visq> I browsed the Haskell source for a while (ghci rocks)

[12:49] <gaal> the refactoring target is not everything in the implementation -- just the AST, but that does imply some futher changes.

[12:49] *** nova-alpha joined
[12:49] <gaal> yes it does

[12:50] <visq> The implementation of Numeric.hs seems to need some changes, though

[12:50] <gaal> also ctags

[12:50] *** nova-alpha is now known as alpha

[12:50] <visq> Integer.isa(Rat).isa(Num) for example; especially coercion in op2Numeric

[12:50] *** alpha is now known as nova-alpha

[12:50] <visq> s/Num/Double/ !

[12:53] <gaal> commits welcome if you can figure out a better scheme :)

[12:53] * gaal goes to look for coffee

[12:54] *** froh-doh joined
[12:57] <visq> Hardcoding coercion to the best of VInt,VRat,VNum in the context of primitive numeric ops isn't that hard

[12:58] *** xdg joined
[13:03] *** frodo72 joined
[13:04] *** frodo72 is now known as froh-doh

[13:05] <nothingmuch> gaal++

[13:05] <nothingmuch> http://cpanratings.perl.org/dist/Best

[13:05] <lambdabot> Title: "Best reviews -"

[13:06] <gaal> .oO( A site dedicated for reviews of my module )

[13:06] *** elmex joined
[13:06] <gaal> The license incidentally should be MIT, but MM doesn't know how to eat that :(

[13:08] <gaal> visq: if you know what to do, go for it

[13:08] <visq> gaal: btw: I fixed that catalog_tests perl script to run with windows path seperators some time ago - not much fun though ;)

[13:10] <gaal> visq++ visq++ visq++

[13:10] <visq> hehe, for setting up windows ...

[13:11] <gaal> indeed. BTW, have you added yourself to AUTHORS? please do

[13:12] <visq> not yet; I will

[13:17] <svnbot6> r11085 | benedikth++ | AUTHORS: add myself to list

[13:23] *** cognominal joined
[13:25] *** neoesque joined
[13:28] *** iblechbot joined
[13:35] *** vel joined
[13:45] *** frederico joined
[13:59] *** cdpruden joined
[14:00] <spinclad> where's the hackathon?

[14:03] *** fglock joined
[14:13] *** Aankh|Clone is now known as Aankhen``

[14:13] <clkao_> nothingmuch: data::bid::compmile was your nightmare?

[14:14] *** shachaf_ joined
[14:19] *** shachaf__ joined
[14:20] <gaal> clkao_: I can attest that nothingmuch woke up saying something about Data::Bind

[14:20] <gaal> I think it was that he figured out how to do aliases

[14:22] <nothingmuch> clkao_: yes =)

[14:24] <clkao> don't read data::bind code before sleep

[14:24] *** lisppaste3 joined
[14:26] <gaal> audreyt: do we need our new PadEntry to still have the Bool freshness flag?

[14:27] <fglock> does '$a.m1.m2' parse as '$a.m1;$a.m2' or '($a.m1).m2' ?

[14:27] <gaal> the latter, I hope

[14:27] <spinclad> the latter

[14:27] <fglock> thanks

[14:30] *** shachaf__ is now known as shachaf

[14:37] *** diotalevi left
[14:45] *** justatheory joined
[14:53] *** sahadev joined
[14:54] *** cognominal joined
[14:55] *** shachaf_ joined
[15:01] *** shachaf__ joined
[15:07] *** shachaf joined
[15:15] *** pmurias joined
[15:15] <svnbot6> r11086 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - t/07-isa.t passes 2 tests

[15:15] <pmurias> hi

[15:16] <Limbic_Region> seen pmichaud

[15:16] <jabbot> Limbic_Region: pmichaud was seen 45 days 23 hours 30 minutes 43 seconds ago

[15:16] <Limbic_Region> hrm

[15:16] <pmurias> is p6ast.hs supposed to be valid haskell?

[15:16] <Limbic_Region> fglock do you know what, if anything, is the successor to Perl6::Rules for rules in p5?

[15:16] <Limbic_Region> s/fglock/fglock and/or anyone/

[15:16] <pmurias> PCR

[15:17] <fglock> yup

[15:17] <fglock> Pugs::Compiler::Rule

[15:18] <Limbic_Region> ok, forgive me for sounding like the neophyte that I am but does the Pugs in the namespace imply I need pugs to generate the p5?

[15:18] <pmurias> no

[15:19] <pmurias> it's pure p5

[15:19] <pmurias> maybe with PadWalker

[15:19] <fglock> I think it means "Pugs-in-p5" as in "Pugs-in-Haskell"

[15:20] *** cognominal joined
[15:20] <Limbic_Region> no worries, I am going to pose a question to the list and wanted to be as focused as I could

[15:20] <Limbic_Region> thanks

[15:20] <fglock> you can ask here too :)

[15:21] * pmurias is trying to use p6ast.hs for his haskell and TaPL practice

[15:21] <pmurias> should i fix syntax errors in p6ast.hs? (1 found)

[15:22] <Limbic_Region> fglock - well, you likely have more important things to do then to come up with an example of using P::C::R to parse (and evaluate) mathematical expressions

[15:23] <fglock> Limbic_Region: actually, Pugs::Compile::Perl6 could do that out of the box

[15:23] <fglock> s/Compile/Compiler/

[15:23] <fglock> math expressions are parsed using a precedence parser instead

[15:24] <fglock> but Pugs::Compiler::Rule grammar actually use rules instead - it just takes more work

[15:25] <Limbic_Region> fglock - feel free to tell me that I am a nimrod then in my post to the list

[15:25] <Limbic_Region> I still want to post it so as to potentially benefit others

[15:26] <fglock> Limbic_Region: see http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs/perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Rule/lib/Pugs/Grammar/Rule/Rule.pm - the last rules have looser precedence; the rules at the start have tighter precedence

[15:26] <fglock> ok

[15:29] <Limbic_Region> fglock - sent

[15:35] *** robkinyon joined
[15:35] <svnbot6> r11087 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - 01-pod.t no longer needs eval()

[15:39] <Limbic_Region> out of curiosity, did that message hit the list yet?

[15:40] <fglock> yes

[15:40] <Limbic_Region> I can never remember if a sent message comes back to me or not

[15:40] <Limbic_Region> ok - thanks

[15:45] <svnbot6> r11088 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - pass t/07-tailcall.t

[15:48] <fglock> bbiab &

[15:56] <fglock> Limbic_Region: http://search.cpan.org/~fglock/Pugs-Compiler-Rule-0.07/lib/Pugs/Grammar/Precedence.pm

[15:56] <lambdabot> Title: "Pugs::Grammar::Precedence - Engine for Perl 6 Rule operator precedence - search. ..."

[15:57] <Limbic_Region> fglock - that doesn't help with the evaluation part

[15:57] <Limbic_Region> but thanks

[15:57] *** elmex joined
[15:59] <fglock> http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs/perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Rule/compile_p6grammar.pl - doesn't do what you want, but you can see what the syntax looks like for evaluating rules in p5

[16:00] <fglock> it's a parser emitter written in rules

[16:00] <fglock> s/parser emitter/parser plus emitter/

[16:01] <fglock> lunch &

[16:02] <Limbic_Region> fglock - I am off to lunch - would appreciate it if you replied to the email instead of just here (again - for the benefit of others)

[16:02] <Limbic_Region> lunch &

[16:04] <gaal> mooseœ×œkkkkk~.

[16:11] *** shachaf_ joined
[16:11] <ingy> audreyt: PCP6 was not passing tests

[16:11] <ingy> audreyt: so I didn't adjust

[16:12] <fglock> Limbic_Region: sent

[16:12] <fglock> lunch for real &

[16:13] <clkao> ingy: why are you playuing with that?

[16:13] <clkao> fglock++ # almost working

[16:13] *** nothingmuch joined
[16:14] <spinclad> pmurias: p6ast.hs looks to me like brainstorming -- a mix of example P6 syntax and the haskell data statements to support it

[16:14] *** shachaf_ is now known as shachaf

[16:16] *** shachaf_ joined
[16:17] *** vel joined
[16:18] <gaal> pmurias, spinclad: yes, it was a desifn sketch. the .hs name is just because we're lazy and don't want to type :setf haskell :)

[16:19] <spinclad> thanks, my eyes can uncross now

[16:20] <ingy> clkao: I moved the file execution code into M::C

[16:20] <ingy> hi fglock

[16:20] <rgs> hi ingy

[16:21] <ingy> hi rgs

[16:22] <rgs> ingy: I've sent a patch for YAML via RT.

[16:22] <ingy> rgs: thanks

[16:22] <ingy> I'll get to it in a few

[16:22] <pmurias> gaal: i so the emmbeded P6 syntax,

[16:22] <rgs> woot.

[16:23] <ingy> I started writing a new YAML.pm

[16:23] <ingy> YAML3000.pm

[16:23] <rgs> from scratch ?

[16:23] <ingy> it's a port of PyYaml

[16:23] <ingy> so it will work perfectly

[16:23] <pmurias> i wanted to know if haskell was used as a notation, or is the code intented to be also used as the haskell representation of the ast

[16:23] <kolibrie> nothingmuch: that's okay about the photo.  Exactly what happened to me.  Had my camera out, didn't remember till I had turned in my keys.

[16:23] <nothingmuch> kolibrie: =(

[16:24] <ingy> because PyYaml is teh shizzle

[16:24] <kolibrie> Maybe I can turn the picture of it in my brain into an oil painting

[16:25] <nothingmuch> kolibrie++

[16:25] <pmurias> ingy: are you secretly a pythoner :)

[16:25] <svnbot6> r11089 | gaal++ | * set ignore property on spec docs, as they are slurped

[16:25] <svnbot6> r11089 | gaal++ |   from an upstream repo

[16:26] <pmurias> or pythonist

[16:26] <gaal> pmurias: the .hs there is almost verbatim what we are using.

[16:27] <pmurias> gaal: is the new ast actually used at the moment?

[16:27] <gaal> one major difference from the existing ast is that pads don't live in Env any more

[16:27] <gaal> pmurias: we're moving to it, hopefully by the end of this hackathon

[16:29] <spinclad> this hackathon has adjourned to Boston by this point?  or in Chicago still?

[16:29] <gaal> BOS

[16:30] <spinclad> may i ask where?  as i was planning on taking some sort of part...

[16:31] <gaal> spinclad: 408 highland av, #416, 2nd floor, somerville

[16:31] <gaal> best practival office

[16:31] <gaal> s/v/c/

[16:32] <merlyn> where can I read more about this mixed PGE that can parse top-down mixed with bottom-up?

[16:32] <merlyn> I know there was the session last week, but I was still hung over. :)

[16:33] <merlyn> so I didn't take very good notes

[16:33] <integral> PM posted some yapc slides to parrot-porters

[16:33] <spinclad> gaal: thanks, i'll make my way there

[16:33] <merlyn> that'd help... I'll go look

[16:34] <pmurias> integral: thats p6i?

[16:34] <integral> pmurias: yeah

[16:34] <merlyn> I don't see that in the past 50 messages

[16:34] <pmurias> neither do i

[16:36] <clkao> fglock: it seems that your branch is emitting perl5 up to where it can still parse the file ;)

[16:37] <integral> hrm, well it was at least one of the lists :-/

[16:37] <merlyn> Yeah, if you can be more specific. :)

[16:37] <TimToady> merlyn: I'm thinking about renaming ==> and <== to "prefeed" and "postfeed", with "feed" the generic term and "fed" the modifier on the target: "This is a prefed function."

[16:38] <integral> subject, "Pm's YAPC::NA talk online", date: Tue, 27 Jun 2006 16:41:51 -0500

[16:38] <TimToady> I think pipe indicates liquids, and a feed can be either solids or liquids.

[16:38] <merlyn> Yeah, that's closer

[16:38] <TimToady> and it's a verb.

[16:38] <merlyn> the noun/verb-ing of pipe was a treat.

[16:39] <merlyn> feed is nearly the same

[16:39] <gaal> spinclad: cool

[16:39] <merlyn> but prefeed doesn't imply a direction for me instantly

[16:39] <TimToady> and not heavily overloaded yet in CS.

[16:39] <TimToady> it's pre as in prefix

[16:39] <merlyn> but what prefixes what?

[16:39] <TimToady> considering the entire feed chain to be a prefix operator

[16:39] <merlyn> ok

[16:39] <TimToady> it's prefix to the fed thing

[16:39] <merlyn> it'll take some getting used to.

[16:39] <merlyn> ok

[16:40] <theorbtwo> Erm, is that the same result as saying that pre-feed means the arrow goes on the beginning of it, as in <==?

[16:40] <TimToady> no, that's a postfeed, specified after the fed func

[16:41] <TimToady> and yes, it'd take some getting used to.  still thinking about it.

[16:41] <TimToady> don't much care about .uniq/.unique

[16:41] <theorbtwo> I think I'd prefer "leftward" and "rightward", pointing out the direction of data flow, and the direction the arrow points.

[16:41] <TimToady> not frequent enough to matter.

[16:42] <Yaakov> Hey, it's Larry.  Hello!

[16:42] <theorbtwo> @foo ==> bar() is a rightward feed.

[16:42] <lambdabot> Maybe you meant: faq todo yow

[16:42] <TimToady> right/left feed would also work.

[16:42] <TimToady> except that a right feed happens on the left of the fed func

[16:42] <TimToady> so the "ward" is not superfluous

[16:42] <TimToady> which makes it clunky.

[16:43] <TimToady> feedinto/feedfrom maybe

[16:43] <TimToady> Yaakov: howdy do.

[16:44] <Yaakov> Pretty darned well, thanks for aasking.

[16:44] *** robkinyon_ joined
[16:44] <theorbtwo> Then you'll end up pronouncing things in the wrong order, with the preposition at the end of a prepositional phrase.

[16:45] <TimToady> feed/feedback :)

[16:46] <spinclad> @a feedsinto &f; &f feedsfrom @a

[16:46] <lambdabot> Maybe you meant: all-dicts arr ask . v

[16:46] <TimToady> audreyt: @?LABEL was intended to be all the labels visible outward in the dynamic scope.

[16:47] <TimToady> ::?CLASS is probably redundant with $?CLASS now

[16:47] <theorbtwo> Hm, I guess that works.

[16:47] <TimToady> perhaps with occasional circulocutions: ::($?CLASS)::($yow)

[16:47] <merlyn> I saw something that showed expr ==> *; expr ==> *; expr ==> *; ... ***

[16:47] <TimToady> they might just turn into feeds/fed

[16:47] <merlyn> is there something that gets at the current list of built-up "whatevers"

[16:48] <merlyn> in the interest of the debugger and other introspective things

[16:48] <TimToady> @firstlist feeds &foo fed @secondlist

[16:48] <spinclad> feeds/fedby ?

[16:48] <lambdabot> Unknown command, try @list

[16:48] <merlyn> like if I have code between the second and third of rhose

[16:48] <merlyn> can I ask something if we have two whatevers so far

[16:48] <TimToady> if bound to *@@args, yes.

[16:49] * spinclad &

[16:49] <merlyn> ok, so there's some introspection available for the state of the world.  good

[16:49] <TimToady> each elem of @@args would be one "dimension"

[16:49] <TimToady> but *@args means you want them flattened

[16:49] <TimToady> (lazily, of course)

[16:51] <TimToady> $BL ~~ s/circulocutions/circumlocutions/

[16:54] <TimToady> < merlyn> I saw something that showed expr ==> *; expr ==> *; expr ==> *; ... ***

[16:55] <TimToady> I'd say that syntax is probably a placeholder for something else that we haven't thought of yet.

[16:55] <TimToady> the problem it's trying to solve is foo ==> bar ==> baz

[16:55] <TimToady> is trying to feed foo to bar, not foo and bar to baz.

[16:56] <merlyn> yes, I see that.  but if there's a place for a statement break, there should be some sort of introspection for "our story thus far..."

[16:56] <TimToady> so we need some way to juggle the pointy ends of pipes and attach multiple of them at the correct spot.

[16:56] <TimToady> might just rely on named arrays for that though.

[16:56] <ingy> hi TimToady

[16:56] <TimToady> named arrays would solve the story thus far problem.

[16:57] <TimToady> ingy+-

[16:57] <TimToady> :)

[16:57] <TimToady> ingy: are you in Boston now?

[16:58] <obra> ingy couldn't come to boston :/

[16:58] <TimToady> ah well. me too.

[16:58] <merlyn> that's what happens when you have a warrant out for you. :)

[16:59] *** nothingmuch joined
[16:59] <ingy> I'm back in Seattle

[16:59] <ingy> hi nothingmuch

[16:59] <TimToady> I prefer to specialize in unwarranted behavior.

[16:59] <merlyn> o/~ back in... seattle, again... o/~

[17:00] * theorbtwo wonders if a Canada joke would be out of line.

[17:00] <TimToady> the only straight line in Canada is the 49th parallel.  :)

[17:00] <ingy> I implemented lightweight generators in Perl using Module::Compile closures and goto

[17:00] <ingy> sun you can yield/next like in python

[17:00] * nothingmuch disagrees

[17:01] <TimToady> nothingmuch is disagreeable.

[17:01] <ingy> nothingmuch owes me

[17:01] <nothingmuch> no i don't

[17:01] <ingy> you break your promises?

[17:01] <nothingmuch> you never listened =)

[17:01] <TimToady> he's breaking is parameters with an argument.

[17:01] <TimToady> *his

[17:03] <TimToady> ingy: I think I know what a "goto" is, but what is a "Module::Compile closure"?

[17:04] <rgs> commas aren't optional

[17:04] <ingy> sorry... M::C, closures, goto

[17:04] <TimToady> eats, shoots, and leaves...

[17:04] <ingy> right

[17:05] <ingy> bad panda, no leaf

[17:05] <fglock> clkao: re parse the file - sure - and we'll get precompiling for free

[17:05] <ingy> hi fglock

[17:07] <fglock> ingy: hi!

[17:11] *** robkinyon_ is now known as robkinyon

[17:12] <fglock> after a bareword space in an expression, everything else is slurp as parameters?

[17:13] <fglock> bareword plus space

[17:15] <fglock> like: ( name 1, 2 or 3 ) - is it parsed as name(1,2 or 3) or (name(1,2) or 3)

[17:16] <fglock> bbiab &

[17:18] <PerlJam> fglock: are you assuming that perl hasn't yet seen the definition of "name"?

[17:19] <TimToady> it will be taken provisionally as a listop, with listop precedence

[17:19] <TimToady> so name(1,2) or 3

[17:19] <TimToady> but it will fail compilation if name is not supplied by CHECK time.

[17:20] <TimToady> it will also fail if name is declared as a unary or 0-ary func.

[17:24] <fglock> TimToady: thanks

[17:30] <TimToady> I guess the stuff that comes through a feed is "fodder".

[17:42] <gaal> audreyt: can objects still have Dynamic opaque content or is it all slots now?

[17:42] <Limbic_Region> speaking of feed and fodder - anyone know what I ate that is making me soooo sleepy

[17:43] <TimToady> fodder?

[17:43] <gaal> chocolate coated chocolate moose?

[17:44] <TimToady> did you eat anything with tryptophans?

[17:44] <TimToady> like, say, cow?

[17:44] <Limbic_Region> apparently, that's an urban legend TimToady

[17:44] * Limbic_Region just looked for that very reason

[17:45] <Limbic_Region> http://www.snopes.com/food/ingredient/turkey.asp

[17:45] <lambdabot> Title: "Urban Legends Reference Pages: The Big Sleep"

[17:45] <TimToady> don't care if it's an UL, cow makes me sleepy...

[17:45] <gaal> maybe you're just bored with the taste?

[17:45] <robkinyon> meat in general is very heavy which can cause sleepiness

[17:46] <Limbic_Region> it does say that eating solid foods (and likely some more than others) causes an increased blood flow to the abdominal region for digestion which might have something to do with it

[17:46] <robkinyon> it's much harder to digest meat than vegetable matter

[17:46] <TimToady> I think the belief that urban legends sites speak the truth is an urban legend.  :)

[17:46] <Limbic_Region> heh

[17:47] <Limbic_Region> in any case - my brain has decided to observe tomorrow's holiday prematurely and as such - the parsing experiment is on hold until Wednesday

[17:47] <Limbic_Region> thanks for the pointer fglock though I would still prefer a working example

[17:47] <TimToady> of Perl 6?

[17:48] <Limbic_Region> well - specifically Perl 6 rules

[17:49] <Limbic_Region> and if at all possible, without the use of Parrot or Pugs

[17:50] <Limbic_Region> but the latter is not really a requirement since I have both working quite nicely at work and at home

[17:51] <ingy> TimToady: check out http://rafb.net/paste/results/BJZAbm91.txt (re: generators)

[17:56] <nothingmuch> i still don't know how your goto works and mine doesn't

[17:56] <nothingmuch> in ters of making the while recheck the condition

[18:02] <ingy> nothingmuch: huh

[18:04] <gaal> audreyt: where are objectIds registered?

[18:05] <gaal> some uplexy pad?

[18:06] <ingy> nothingmuch: perl likes me

[18:07] <nothingmuch> ingy: okay

[18:09] <rafl> Which version of ghc is needed to build 6.2.12?

[18:09] <gaal> I think 6.4.1 is still ok

[18:10] <gaal> on debian, which I'm assuming you're asking aobut :)

[18:10] <audreyt> gaal: objspace

[18:11] <rafl> So my 6.4.2 should work fine. Nevertheless I get some errors which seem to indicate some ghc or ghc-pkg b0rkage.

[18:11] <rafl> gaal: Of course it's about Debian. :-)

[18:11] <gaal> audreyt: but is that global? i thought there was the possibility of masking packages

[18:11] <gaal> or do they nest?

[18:12] <rafl> Ideas? http://nopaste.debianforum.de/3599

[18:12] <gaal> anymoose mkType "foo" no longer makes sense

[18:12] <audreyt> gaal: well, PIL^N models it as

[18:12] <audreyt> type ObjectSpace = SeqOf (Weak NativeObj)

[18:13] <fglock> audreyt: can you help me a bit with the parser?

[18:13] <ingy> hi audreyt

[18:14] *** ruoso joined
[18:14] <gaal> is Data.Seq version dependent? I don't see it on hoogle

[18:15] <ingy> fglock: why are there 2 v6.pm-s?

[18:15] <gaal> oh, got it, src/Data/Seq.hs

[18:15] <ingy> I need to patch one... which one?

[18:15] <ingy> or both?

[18:16] <audreyt> fglock: sorry, I just woke up, gotta get some food first

[18:16] <audreyt> and then I'll join the hackathoners

[18:16] <gaal> audreyt: we were just discussing getting food

[18:16] <fglock> ingy: perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Perl6/lib/v6.pm is the right one

[18:16] * Limbic_Region suggests audreyt avoid the fodder

[18:16] <gaal> so if you aren't bent on breakfast-type chow you can join us here and eat

[18:17] <fglock> ingy: the one in misc/px/ is a prototype for next version - I'll merge later

[18:17] <audreyt> gaal: heh, I just reheated the rice form yesterday...

[18:18] <pasteling> "rafl" at 217.246.159.40 pasted "Pugs 6.2.12 build failure on Debian" (363 lines, 31.2K) at http://sial.org/pbot/18189

[18:18] <ingy> fglock: ok

[18:18] <fglock> now I'm hungry - I'll get something to eat too &

[18:18] <audreyt> gaal: so I'll finish it here I guess

[18:18] <ingy> fglock: what is the basic changes?

[18:19] <ingy> audreyt: is PCP supposed to pass tests?

[18:19] <fglock> ingy: the grammar is all new

[18:19] <ingy> fglock: oh, so not changing v6.pm

[18:19] <ingy> I see

[18:20] <ingy> ll

[18:20] <ingy> erp

[18:20] <fglock> ingy: yes - I'm rewriting the grammar in order to try to merge with Parrot/P6 later

[18:20] <ingy> I mean the v6.pm wrapper is not changing

[18:20] <ingy> fglock: btw, your code seems to have DOS line endings :(

[18:20] <fglock> no

[18:21] <audreyt> yeah, please someone run utils/add-svn-props.sh over all fglock code

[18:21] <audreyt> :)

[18:21] <fglock> ingy: sorry

[18:21] <fglock> I use windows in the weekends

[18:22] <audreyt> that's fine, that's what add-svn-props.sh is for

[18:22] <audreyt> (to normalize line endings so DOS people see crlf and UNIX people sees lf)

[18:23] <fglock> cofee &

[18:28] *** rashakil joined
[18:34] <rafl> Does third-party/fps somehow differ from http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~dons/fps.html?

[18:34] <lambdabot> Title: "Data.ByteString / FPS"

[18:34] <fglock> re parser: is it better to have the dot in a method call parsed as an operator, or is the dot a part of the '$object.method(param)' term?

[18:35] <audreyt> rafl: it's a snapshot that works with pugs, and I pull from upstream every now and then

[18:36] <audreyt> fglock: I parse the ".method()" as a postfix

[18:37] <fglock> audreyt: you mean, including the parameter list?

[18:37] <audreyt> right, that's "method postfix"

[18:37] <audreyt> the secondmost tight prec

[18:37] <rafl> audreyt: There's no configurable way to not install those third-party modules somewhere else than in the users home directory, I guess?

[18:38] <audreyt> rafl: currently, no, though I can see installing them to system may work

[18:38] <audreyt> rafl: but then that means that step needs to happen as root before pugs gets built

[18:39] <Aankhen``> What are .hi files?

[18:39] <audreyt> Aankhen``: they are like C's .h files that describes what a .o file contains

[18:39] <rafl> audreyt: Why not use a temporary packages.conf somewhere under the build tree to register them and install them with the rest of pugs after the build?

[18:39] <audreyt> rafl: we tried that

[18:39] <Aankhen``> I thought C .h files are header files? :-S

[18:40] <rafl> audreyt: What was wrong with that approach?

[18:40] <audreyt> Aankhen``: and .hi are "interface" files

[18:40] <audreyt> rafl: that will require "make install" stage to readjust the .conf

[18:40] <Aankhen``> Ah.

[18:41] <rafl> audreyt: What's the problem with that? Except someone may need to write some code that does it?

[18:41] <audreyt> rafl: it could be made to work, I think, and is the correct way.

[18:42] <audreyt> rafl: that requires a ghc-pkg wrapper

[18:42] <ingy> clkao: ping

[18:42] <audreyt> since cabal doesn't take ghc-pkg flags

[18:42] <rafl> audreyt: I've done that several times while packaging haskell libraries for Debian.

[18:42] <audreyt> rafl: and the wrapper needs to be written in Haskell and compiled to .exe much like Setup.exe (or merge both? maybe)

[18:42] <rafl> audreyt: Why does it need to a .exe?

[18:43] <audreyt> rafl: because Win32 would require that

[18:43] <audreyt> I mean an executable, not the suffix

[18:43] <fglock> audreyt: I was confused with '.meth listop' in S03 - I was reading it as 2 words - think it needs quotes

[18:43] <audreyt> i.e. a #!/usr/bin/perl wrapper wouldn't do

[18:43] <rafl> How about perl? It's a prereq anyway?

[18:43] <audreyt> yes but you can't pass arguments into it

[18:43] <audreyt> --with-ghc-pkg=perl

[18:43] <audreyt> that doesn't work

[18:43] <rafl> I see.

[18:44] <audreyt> I suspect you can fiddle with PERL5OPTS or something to cheat

[18:44] <rafl> Luckily I recently had some haskell lessons at university. :-)

[18:44] <audreyt> but the cleanest way is just build a ghc-pkg wrapper from .hs into .exe

[18:44] <audreyt> the same time Setup.exe gets built

[18:44] <gaal> audreyt: have you compiled PIL^N recently? I'm getting compiler errors on Data.Seq

[18:44] <audreyt> rafl: so if you can Solve This Tangled Mess then wow, you++

[18:45] <rafl> audreyt: At least I'll give a try.

[18:46] *** coumbes joined
[18:46] <svnbot6> r11091 | ingy++ |  r713@ingy:  ingy | 2006-04-14 21:47:37 -0700

[18:46] <svnbot6> r11091 | ingy++ |  Fixed so that pod2html works

[18:46] <gaal> audreyt: http://sial.org/pbot/18190

[18:46] <lambdabot> Title: "Paste #18190 from Someone at 66.92.67.231"

[18:48] <ingy> svk-- # hanging...

[18:48] <Limbic_Region> is there anyway with svn/svk to ensure every single file in my local rep matches that of the repo?

[18:49] <audreyt> gaal: fixed

[18:49] <Limbic_Region> on more than one occassion I have gotten a message about foo not being updated and to run with merge track something or other

[18:49] <gaal> cheers

[18:49] *** vel joined
[18:52] <svnbot6> r11092 | audreyt++ | * repair "make pil" to work with newer libs and GHC.

[18:52] <svnbot6> r11093 | ingy++ |  r714@ingy:  ingy | 2006-04-15 04:42:01 -0700

[18:52] <svnbot6> r11093 | ingy++ |  S26 first sweep of changes

[18:53] * ingy wonders wtf svk is doing

[18:57] *** elmex_ joined
[18:59] *** shachaf joined
[18:59] <svnbot6> r11094 | audreyt++ | * Another set of fps changes to make "make pil" happier

[19:03] <gaal> audreyt: objectIds can't live in objectspace, they aren't objects. where do I keep a Str -> objectId mapping and is it global?

[19:05] <audreyt> Str?

[19:06] * audreyt is confused

[19:06] <gaal> mkType "Moose"

[19:06] <gaal> should return the id of Moose.meta

[19:06] <audreyt> instead of a VType value?

[19:07] <gaal> do we stil have VType?

[19:07] <audreyt> we do

[19:07] <audreyt> it's the prototypical object for something named that

[19:07] <audreyt> inside the scope

[19:11] <gaal> is it still represented the same way? as a wrapped string?

[19:12] <audreyt> I think so.

[19:12] <audreyt> otoh, it can alternately be represented as a instance

[19:12] <audreyt> with no slots

[19:12] <gaal> and I still don't understand how the lookup is to work. data Object no longer has a VType field, we changed it it the ojectID of meta

[19:12] <TreyHarris> pugs has no float support?

[19:12] <audreyt> and .meta as the id

[19:13] <gaal> ?eval 0.234234

[19:13] *** evalbot_11071 is now known as evalbot_11094

[19:13] <evalbot_11094> 117117/500000

[19:13] <TreyHarris> heh

[19:13] <gaal> ?eval 0.234234.as("%f")

[19:13] <evalbot_11094> \"0.234234"

[19:13] <svnbot6> r11095 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - fixed .meth

[19:13] <TreyHarris> so it has float support, so long as the floats are strings :-)

[19:14] <gaal> it's just very happy to use Rats when it can

[19:14] *** vel joined
[19:15] <audreyt> gaal: let's talk f2f :)

[19:15] <audreyt> obra: please pick me up in... 15mins?

[19:15] <Limbic_Region> oh, is anyone taking pics at the hackathon?

[19:15] <svnbot6> r11096 | audreyt++ | * repair "make pil'.

[19:16] * Limbic_Region would love to be able to put faces to handles since he couldn't be there to see ppl f2f

[19:18] <obra> audreyt: food just appeared. I'll want a few more minutes to actually eat

[19:19] <audreyt> sure!

[19:21] <gaal> Limbic_Region: nobody seems to have a camera here, but see nothingmuch's moosepage on flickr

[19:22] *** elmex_ is now known as elmex

[19:25] * miyagawa just arrived NY

[19:27] <Limbic_Region> gaal - link?

[19:28] <gaal> Limbic_Region: http://www.flickr.com/photos/nuffin/sets/72157594183758406/

[19:28] <lambdabot> Title: "YAPC::NA::2006 MÃ¸Ã¸se photos - a photoset on Flickr"

[19:29] <stevan> M???????????ssseeeee

[19:29] <gaal> stevan!

[19:29] <gaal> you are moosed

[19:29] <stevan> gaal: Alias seems to think we are doing an "underground marketing campaign:

[19:29] <Limbic_Region> err, lots of photos but apparently not lots of names/tags

[19:29] <stevan> no love for just pure moose ness

[19:29] <gaal> no, just taking over the world

[19:29] <stevan> Limbic_Region: the roll overs have the names on them

[19:30] <gaal> Limbic_Region: there are tags in many of them (annotations)

[19:30] <Limbic_Region> roll overs?

[19:30] * Limbic_Region recognizes Randal and always knew he wasn't human

[19:30] <stevan> Limbic_Region: careful with the ones of ingy, they are not 100% work safe ;)

[19:31] <stevan> Limbic_Region: the little flickr tags.. they appear when you roll over the pics

[19:31] <Limbic_Region> ahhh - roll over

[19:31] <Limbic_Region> got it

[19:32] * PerlJam wonders what the odds are of two people named "Patrick Michaud" attending YAPC ...

[19:32] <TimToady> 100%

[19:32] <stevan> yeah exactly,.. I thought that too

[19:33] <stevan> We are working on cloning audreyt as well, so this should be more common in subsequent YAPCs

[19:33] <audreyt> TimToady: hi. is ::?CLASS just $?CLASS?

[19:33] <PerlJam> stevan: awesome!

[19:33] <audreyt> TimToady: and is @?LABEL just $?LABEL?

[19:33] <Aankhen``> LMAO stevan.

[19:34] <TimToady> I answered that earlier.

[19:34] <audreyt> hm.

[19:34] <audreyt> I didn't see them in backlog-machine

[19:34] * gaal missed the answer too

[19:34] * audreyt checks her backlog reader

[19:34] <audreyt> audreyt: @?LABEL was intended to be all the labels visible outward in the dynamic scope.

[19:34] <audreyt> ::?CLASS is probably redundant with $?CLASS now

[19:34] <gaal> http://colabti.de/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2006-07-03,Mon&sel=340#l511

[19:34] <lambdabot> Title: "#perl6 2006-07-03,Mon"

[19:34] <audreyt> TimToady: "dynamic" scope?

[19:34] <audreyt> not lexical?

[19:35] <gaal> audreyt: obra on his way to you

[19:35] <audreyt> i.e. OUTER or CALLER's label?

[19:35] <audreyt> gaal: oh. ok.

[19:35] <TimToady> lexical then dynamic, I guess.

[19:36] <clkao> audreyt: obra just went out

[19:36] *** dduncan joined
[19:36] <TimToady> same order they'd be searched for.  But it's probably not important

[19:36] <audreyt> i.e. anything that can be goto'd to

[19:37] <TimToady> I was thinking of loop labels.

[19:37] <TimToady> finding gotoable labels seems a lot harder.

[19:37] <TimToady> specially if we make line numbers gotoable.  :)

[19:37] <audreyt> wait...

[19:37] <audreyt> do you mean @?LABEL only remembers the labls associated with Code

[19:38] <audreyt> rather than with statements?

[19:38] <audreyt> also, is .ref still used to return the prototype object

[19:38] <audreyt> or is it .class now?

[19:39] <audreyt> Dog.new.ref; # Dog

[19:39] <TimToady> doesn't "remember" anything.  Just constructs the list of labels it'd find if you tried "next NoneSuch".

[19:39] <audreyt> 'k

[19:39] <TimToady> don't really need it, probably.

[19:39] <TimToady> I want to kill .ref.

[19:39] <audreyt> hard to find a use case.

[19:39] <audreyt> ok. then .proto? .class? .object_class?

[19:39] <TimToady> .type maybe, or .proto

[19:39] <audreyt> still need something that's not .meta

[19:39] <audreyt> .type is fine too

[19:40] <TimToady> yes

[19:40] <TimToady> can't use .meta

[19:40] <TimToady> merlyn and I were discussing this very thing

[19:40] <TimToady> .type is probably the most transparent

[19:40] <TimToady> and available

[19:40] <TreyHarris> what's wrong with .meta?

[19:41] <TimToady> it's the metaclass object, not the type

[19:41] <TreyHarris> beside being CS-y, which i know merlyn doesn't like?  oh, so .meta will exist, it just can't be used for that.

[19:41] <TimToady> you could have a single metaclass object managing multiple types, and vice versa.

[19:42] <TimToady> yes

[19:42] <PerlJam> TimToady: BTW, I was rereading the Synopses last night and I noticed that, in general, it doesn't say much about when things go wrong.  The only example I remember is in S06 where it talks about "attributive parameters".  It doesn't say what should happen when the object doesn't have an attribute with the name used in the submethod.

[19:42] <TimToady> plus it's just a really old-school meaning of "type" for it to be the prototype object.

[19:43] <TimToady> "Abraham is a type of all who believe".

[19:43] <PerlJam> s/it doesn't/they don't/

[19:44] <TimToady> well, in general, if something goes wrong, you get an exception.  Sometimes it's thrown, and sometimes it's just returned.

[19:46] <TimToady> what it does with an attributive parameter that isn't supplied would presumably be just the same as an ordinary parameter that doesn't have a default.

[19:46] <TimToady> (where optional means defaulting to undef)

[19:47] *** pmurias joined
[19:47] <pmurias> nothingmuch: ping

[19:47] <nothingmuch> pmurias: pong

[19:47] <TimToady> but in general, not supplying a required parameter would result in a die rather than a fail.

[19:48] <pmurias> nothingmuch: does the new wemail interface work for email sending?

[19:48] <TimToady> and yes, that's not specced anywhere.

[19:48] <nothingmuch> die == your fault

[19:48] <nothingmuch> fail == maybe your fault

[19:48] <nothingmuch> but probably not?

[19:48] <nothingmuch> pmurias: i tested it and it seemed to, yes

[19:49] <TimToady> fail == huh?  die == fu!

[19:49] <nothingmuch> TimToady: i think that's what I meant =)

[19:49] <nothingmuch> as in, bad input vs. bad circumstances

[19:49] <nothingmuch> there should be a style guide for this

[19:50] <TreyHarris> my browser's off in la-la-land for the moment and i don't have my browser's off in la-la-land for the moment and i don't have the .pod files handy, so apologies if this is in the synopsis, but is croak built-in now?

[19:50] <nothingmuch> also, when does 'use fatal' and 'no fatal' actually take effect?

[19:50] <pmurias> nothingmuch: used the old one and it worked (worse is better:)

[19:50] <nothingmuch> ialways assumed that whenever an error object passes through (implicitly or explicitly) a use fatal block it dies

[19:50] <nothingmuch> and that no fatal has an implicit try { } around every call to out of scope code

[19:51] <TimToady> croak is currently unspecced.

[19:51] <nothingmuch> pmurias: okay, i'll look at the smtp logs

[19:51] *** rindolf joined
[19:51] <nothingmuch> croak should be Carp::Clan like, IMHO

[19:51] <rindolf> Hi all.

[19:51] <rindolf> Hi nothingmuch

[19:51] <nothingmuch> Hi

[19:51] <rafl> Is there a ghc equivalent to perls Config.pm?

[19:51] <rindolf> nothingmuch: I need help with http://sial.org/pbot/18191 - it's in Haskell.

[19:51] <lambdabot> Title: "Paste #18191 from "rindolf" at 88.155.89.47"

[19:52] <nothingmuch> create_empty doesn't need to be in the IO monad

[19:52] <rindolf> nothingmuch: OK.

[19:52] <rindolf> nothingmuch: so how do I use it with main?

[19:52] <nothingmuch> just use empty and a non binding

[19:52] <rindolf> nothingmuch: thanks.

[19:52] <nothingmuch> instead of <- have a where/let

[19:53] <rindolf> Couldn't match `IO' against `Map k'

[19:53] <nothingmuch> or just putStr (to_str empty)

[19:53] <nothingmuch> right, because empty returns values from the type 'Map k' (k is an unbound type variable (s))

[19:53] <rindolf> nothingmuch: yes, but how do I add more elems to it?

[19:53] <TreyHarris> croak being built-in would be nice, imho.  "my fault" (die) versus "your fault" (croak) is a good duality.

[19:53] <nothingmuch> you don't, it's a purely functional data structure

[19:54] <nothingmuch> the add function returns a new map object

[19:54] <nothingmuch> s/object/thingy/;

[19:54] <gaal> FWIW, Carp::longmess has been in Prelude.pm for ages now

[19:54] <rindolf> nothingmuch: I see.

[19:54] <nothingmuch> whcih contains all the values from the previous one and this one too

[19:54] <nothingmuch> there's prolly an IORef like map object that can work for you

[19:54] <nothingmuch> i just don't know about it

[19:54] <nothingmuch> maybe even JudyHS

[19:54] <nothingmuch> since Judy can be abused very effectively for caching

[19:55] <nothingmuch> err

[19:55] <nothingmuch> hashing, not caching

[19:56] <nothingmuch> doesn't the map class have an instance of Show, btw?

[19:56] <nothingmuch> also, i believe maps should be sorted by default since IIRC they're implemented as trees

[19:56] <gaal> @hoogle Data.Map

[19:56] <lambdabot> No matches, try a more general search

[19:56] <nothingmuch> yes

[19:56] <nothingmuch> insert :: Ord k => k -> a -> Map k a -> Map k a

[19:57] <nothingmuch> k, the key, needs to be of the class Ord

[19:57] <nothingmuch> so maps use ordering to search in log n instead of constant time

[19:57] <nothingmuch> or n time

[19:57] <pmurias> is there an official static type system for perl?

[19:57] <nothingmuch> pmurias: Perl 6?

[19:57] <gaal> wtm? Map is not core?

[19:57] <pmurias> yes

[19:57] <nothingmuch> there is a fairly well known type annotation system

[19:58] <nothingmuch> and a probable approach to how to infer (it'll probably be local type inferrence)

[19:58] <gaal> http://haskell.org/ghc/docs/latest/html/libraries/base/Data-Map.html#t%3AMap

[19:58] <rindolf> Hi gaal

[19:58] <gaal> instaces: ... (Show k, Show a) => Show (Map k a)

[19:58] <gaal> Hi there

[19:59] <gaal> so if the key and value are Show, so is the map

[19:59] <nothingmuch> @hoogle showTree

[19:59] <lambdabot> Data.IntMap.showTree :: Show a => IntMap a -> String

[19:59] <lambdabot> Data.IntSet.showTree :: IntSet -> String

[19:59] <lambdabot> Data.Map.showTree :: (Show k, Show a) => Map k a -> String

[19:59] <nothingmuch> that's a debugging function

[19:59] <nothingmuch> you can use that

[19:59] <nothingmuch> http://haskell.org/ghc/docs/latest/html/libraries/base/Data-Map.html#21

[20:00] <pmurias> how much does type_meta.pod apply?

[20:01] <nothingmuch> if you annotate and it's mostly by me or luqui than probably noit much ;-)

[20:01] <nothingmuch> oh

[20:01] <nothingmuch> hmm

[20:01] <nothingmuch> that actually explains fairly well how there is no real type system yet =)

[20:02] <pmurias> luqui was supposed to have a big influence on the type system

[20:03] <nothingmuch> yes, but this stuff never really materialized yet

[20:03] <nothingmuch> it's too early to know

[20:03] <nothingmuch> we need typing in pugs to figure out the details

[20:03] <nothingmuch> and then make smarter decisions

[20:04] <nothingmuch> luqui has stepped back from the project since

[20:06] <pmurias> shower&

[20:06] <nothingmuch> pmurias: okay, something was less strict before

[20:06] <nothingmuch> probably spam related

[20:06] *** larsen joined
[20:06] <nothingmuch> i'll reconfigure some stuff and it should work soon

[20:07] <nothingmuch> pmurias: done

[20:13] <svnbot6> r11097 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - 3 tests to go - t/07-simple-multisubs.t, t/10-moose1.t, t/11-capture.t

[20:13] <nothingmuch> rindolf: how are you managing?

[20:14] *** petdance joined
[20:17] <pmurias> nothingmuch: did you read TaPL?

[20:17] *** ludan joined
[20:17] <pmurias> nothingmuch++ #non-sucking-mail-services

[20:18] *** fglock joined
[20:18] <nothingmuch> pmurias: i lent my copy to lumi

[20:19] <nothingmuch> i didn't get it back yet

[20:19] <nothingmuch> and I haven't gotten to it before

[20:19] <nothingmuch> so no =(

[20:21] * nothingmuch basks in his karma

[20:22] <pmurias> how do you get your karma level?

[20:22] <pmurias> get info abouy

[20:23] <pmurias> @karma nothingmuch

[20:23] <lambdabot> nothingmuch has a karma of 0

[20:23] <pmurias> @karma pmurias

[20:23] <lambdabot> You have a karma of 0

[20:23] <nothingmuch> lambdabot has a different syntax

[20:23] <pmurias> ?

[20:24] <pmurias> ?karma nothingmuch

[20:24] <pmurias> perlbot karma nothingmuch

[20:24] <perlbot> Karma for nothingmuch: 43

[20:24] <nothingmuch> @karma+ and @karma-

[20:24] <pmurias> perlbot karma pmurias

[20:24] <perlbot> Karma for pmurias: 5

[20:24] <nothingmuch> jabbot: karma nothingmuch?

[20:25] <jabbot> nothingmuch: nothingmuch? has neutral karma

[20:25] <nothingmuch> jabbot: karma nothingmuch

[20:25] <jabbot> nothingmuch: nothingmuch has karma of 79

[20:25] <lambdabot> nothingmuch has a karma of 0

[20:25] <nothingmuch> purl on irc.perl.org wins though

[20:25] <lambdabot> and's karma raised to 1.

[20:25] <pmurias> jabbot karma pmurias

[20:25] <nothingmuch> nevermind, i'm glad you like my mail services =)

[20:25] <fglock> perlbot karma fglock

[20:25] <perlbot> Karma for fglock: 130

[20:25] <Juerd> perlbot karma juerd

[20:25] <perlbot> Karma for juerd: 66

[20:25] <Juerd> 600 to go.

[20:25] <nothingmuch> heh

[20:29] <ruoso> perlbot karma ruoso

[20:29] <perlbot> Karma for ruoso: 6

[20:29] <ruoso> heh

[20:36] <rindolf> nothingmuch: not well at all.

[20:36] <rindolf> nothingmuch: it takes too much time.

[20:36] <rindolf> nothingmuch: with Perl, I would have finished it by now.

[20:36] <rindolf> Anyway, I'd like to report some Mandriva bugs I found in Cooker.

[20:36] <Juerd> perlbot karma rindolf

[20:36] <perlbot> Karma for rindolf: 15

[20:37] <rindolf> nothingmuch++ # Helping me a bit.

[20:38] <nothingmuch> rindolf: well, you don't *have* to use haskell

[20:39] <nothingmuch> as audrey says haskell is good for when you know what you exactly what you want to do

[20:40] <nothingmuch> while perl is good for when you're poking around

[20:40] <nothingmuch> both probably more so than any other language

[20:40] <rindolf> nothingmuch: I see.

[20:40] <rindolf> nothingmuch: well, I'm trying to write a script I want to write in a differnet language than Perl.

[20:41] <gaal> "Perl 6's model is essentially like Perl 5's except that it treats classes as first class objects, not strings" ~~ audreyt

[20:41] <rindolf> nothingmuch: my candidates were Smalltalk (that I'm learning at the moment), Haskell (which I learned back then) and Common Lisp that I'd like to learn.

[20:42] <nothingmuch> okay

[20:42] <rindolf> I'm also refactoring the Graham Function Perl 5 script so it wil be easier to translate to ST and CL.

[20:42] <nothingmuch> haskell is probably not the best scripting language

[20:43] <Juerd> What is it called when something happens often, but at irregular intervals?

[20:43] <ruoso> periodic

[20:43] <ruoso> ?

[20:44] <rindolf> nothingmuch: tell that to wli.

[20:44] <dduncan> I wonder if mine works yet ...

[20:44] <dduncan> Karma for dduncan

[20:44] *** petdance joined
[20:44] <rindolf> perlbot: karma for dduncan

[20:44] <perlbot> Karma for dduncan: 24

[20:44] <jabbot> rindolf: for dduncan has neutral karma

[20:45] <rindolf> Hi petdance

[20:45] <petdance> hi shlmoi

[20:45] <dduncan> perlbot: karma for Darren_Duncan

[20:45] <perlbot> Karma for Darren_Duncan: 6

[20:45] <jabbot> dduncan: for Darren_Duncan has neutral karma

[20:45] <nothingmuch> rindolf: by "scripting" i mean "forgiving, adhocish"

[20:45] <dduncan> unfortunately, mine's split due to the latter being my SVN username

[20:45] <rindolf> nothingmuch: yes, I know.

[20:45] <nothingmuch> it's not so much the type of program, but the methodology

[20:45] <rindolf> nothingmuch: thing is wli is writing his scripts in Haskell.

[20:46] <rindolf> nothingmuch: I know.

[20:46] <nothingmuch> that's good for wli

[20:46] <rindolf> nothingmuch: do you know Common Lisp? Can you recommend an implementation?

[20:46] <nothingmuch> but wli is probably not learning haskell right now

[20:46] <rindolf> nothingmuch: do you know who wli is?

[20:46] <nothingmuch> nope,nope, and nope

[20:46] <nothingmuch> well, i kinda know cl, i know scheme

[20:47] <nothingmuch> but i haven't more than played around

[20:47] <petdance> oh wait, I don't want this channel on autojoin.

[20:47] <petdance> I just like parrot.  Perl6 is too real! :-)

[20:47] *** Odin-LAP joined
[20:48] <rindolf> nothingmuch: I also know Scheme.

[20:48] <rindolf> nothingmuch: or at least knew. Now my knowledge is somewhat rusty.

[20:48] <nothingmuch> scheme and cl are similar languaages, but subtly different. however, cl is much more than just a language

[20:48] <Juerd> ruoso: Not what I'm looking for...

[20:48] <audreyt> TimToady: this:

[20:48] <audreyt> Because Perl 6 uses a false C<.id> to signify a non-instantiated prototype,

[20:48] <audreyt> all instances should arrange to return a C<.id> that boolifies to true.

[20:49] <nothingmuch> it has

[20:49] <nothingmuch> ack, typing

[20:49] <audreyt> I take that it means Int.id and Dog.id is both 0

[20:49] <rindolf> Maybe I'll write a TAP runner in CL.

[20:49] <audreyt> (or False)

[20:50] <nothingmuch> rindolf: okay

[20:50] <ruoso> Juerd, in which sense you mean?

[20:50] <Juerd> Wish I knew.

[20:51] <rindolf> nothingmuch: since MikeSchwern wants two different implementations and stuff.

[20:51] <rindolf> So there will be 3 or 4.

[20:51] <audreyt> TimToady: so I wonder if there should be a separate (.meta.id, .id) tuple

[20:51] <audreyt> that is good enough for (say) hashes that use objs as keys

[20:51] <dduncan> One thing I've never been quite clear on ... are .id each integers?

[20:52] <dduncan> and nothing else?

[20:52] <dduncan> s/nothing/something/

[20:52] <dduncan> forget that

[20:52] <Juerd> I hope they will be integers.

[20:52] <Juerd> It would be a nightmare if they could be any object.

[20:52] <nothingmuch> rindolf: good luck

[20:53] <dduncan> my reading of them so far didn't indicate any type, though a few examples suggest integers

[20:53] <rafl> audreyt: While writing the ghc-pkg-wrapper, would it be safe to use components in src (namely System.FilePath)?

[20:53] <Juerd> Strings may be useful too.

[20:53] <Juerd> Then they can include hostnames in network cluster builds.

[20:53] <dduncan> that said, I wonder about container types

[20:53] <Juerd> But the performance difference is huge.

[20:53] <dduncan> eg, what is the .id of a Pair object?

[20:54] <dduncan> how is that determined

[20:54] <Juerd> 42

[20:54] <dduncan> I need to know things like how a .id is determined for a Pair or Seq or Mapping etc, so I know the best way to generate such for complex things like my Relation

[20:56] <dduncan> I'm assuming it can't just be a hash, since sometimes multiple things would hash to the same value, and two unique .id are supposed to guarantee two identical values, regardless of the type, and for immutable types, even with different actual objects

[20:57] <rindolf> OK, reported one Mandriva bug - now trying to recall others.

[20:57] *** spinclad_ joined
[20:57] <rindolf> Found one - akregator won't open links using konqi.

[21:05] *** Limbic_Region joined
[21:08] <chip> audreyt, all: hi

[21:08] <chip> audreyt: Q about PIR

[21:09] *** xdg joined
[21:13] *** vsoni joined
[21:13] <svnbot6> r11098 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - pass t/10-moose1.t

[21:13] <vsoni> chip: hi chip

[21:14] <chip> rehi :-)

[21:14] *** unobe joined
[21:15] <obra> hey chip

[21:16] <chip> obra: hi jesse

[21:18] <rindolf> Hi chip

[21:18] <rindolf> chip: didn't the King of Prussia whatever press charges against you?

[21:19] <rindolf> chip: in any case, I really appreciate the work you've done to maintaining perl5, etc.

[21:21] <dduncan> hi chip, how's the old block?

[21:22] <Limbic_Region> nothingmuch ping

[21:22] <nothingmuch> Limbic_Region: pong

[21:22] <spinclad_> cheeep!

[21:22] *** coumbes joined
[21:23] <Limbic_Region> very cool moose pics

[21:23] * Limbic_Region is from Maine where moose are common place

[21:23] * Limbic_Region isn't sure which are better looking though

[21:25] * Limbic_Region especially liked the traitor shot

[21:26] <dduncan> url?

[21:27] <spinclad_> chip: audrey's talking with gaal atm

[21:27] <fglock> clkao: ping

[21:28] <Limbic_Region> http://www.flickr.com/photos/nuffin/sets/72157594183758406/

[21:28] <lambdabot> Title: "YAPC::NA::2006 MÃ¸Ã¸se photos - a photoset on Flickr"

[21:28] <Limbic_Region> anyone know what "1 file skipped, you might want to rerun merge with --track-rename." from svk means and how to fix it

[21:29] <spinclad_> offline borg

[21:33] <clkao> fglock: pong

[21:33] <ingy> clkao: ping

[21:33] <clkao> ingy: hey

[21:33] <ingy> clkao: two things

[21:34] <ingy> first I changed M::C to include the file hacks with your package hack

[21:34] <fglock> clkao: almost ready for merging - can you point me to svk instructions?

[21:34] <ingy> but I changed caller(4) to caller(2)

[21:34] <ingy> not sure if it's right, so please test

[21:34] <ingy> Secondly, I hate svk ;)

[21:35] <ingy> well right now I even hate svn!

[21:35] <ingy> why won't anything work today??!!

[21:35] * ingy pouts

[21:36] *** jiing joined
[21:40] * fglock wonders what "Automatically merge" would do

[21:40] <svnbot6> r11099 | fglock++ | px/fglock/v6 - ready to merge back to perl5/

[21:46] <chip> spinclad_: ok

[21:46] <chip> spinclad_: hey there

[21:46] <chip> dduncan: yo dude

[21:46] <clkao> fglock: svk sm -C //path/to/px/fglock/pc-p6 //path/to/perl5/pc-p6

[21:46] <clkao> ingy: why did you change it to caller(2)?

[21:47] <fglock> clkao: starting...

[21:48] <fglock> installing Devel::Caller in order to test perl5/PCP6 - "Module::Build is not configured with C_support" - any ideas?

[21:48] <ingy> clkao: well it's in a different place

[21:49] <ingy> I'm not even sure that caller isn't too fragile...

[21:49] <ingy> anyway let me know if it works or not

[21:49] <dduncan> hello chip

[21:49] <ingy> and I'll fix it clkao

[21:52] <clkao> fglock: resintall module::build after you have something extutils:: something c. i forgot

[21:52] <clkao> hate module::build

[21:52] <fglock> k

[21:54] <clkao> or you can do the merge down by swapping the two args, and make sure it works. then merge back

[21:55] <fglock> perl5/PCP6 tests don't pass - checking...

[21:57] <fglock> "die _emit" :)

[21:58] <clkao> uhm :p

[22:00] <fglock> error - Repository /home/fglock/.svk/local does not exist, create? (y/n)y / No such depot: home.

[22:02] <svnbot6> r11100 | ingy++ |  r1931@ingy:  ingy | 2006-06-26 13:29:00 -0700

[22:02] <svnbot6> r11100 | ingy++ |  perl5/

[22:04] <clkao> er? i thought you have svk checkout already/ you haven't used svk at all?

[22:04] <svnbot6> r11101 | ingy++ |  r2126@ingy:  ingy | 2006-07-03 11:44:37 -0700

[22:04] <svnbot6> r11101 | ingy++ |  Refactor v6.pm to use M-C-0.17 which does the .xxxc file check.

[22:04] <svnbot6> r11101 | ingy++ |  All add clean_files to Makefile.PL

[22:04] <ingy> svk++ # decided not to segfault this time

[22:08] <fglock> clkao: do I need an import or checkout first? (I was only using svn until now)

[22:13] <clkao> fglock: ya.

[22:15] <fglock> clkao: can I reuse the svn directory, or will it be mixed up

[22:17] <fglock> (still reading the svk instructions)

[22:17] <clkao> uhm no. but someone suggested something to turn svn checkout into an initail svk mirror and checkout

[22:17] <clkao> fglock: ask nothingmuch for quick tour. i am working on something now

[22:17] <TreyHarris> lol.  message from one of our 'developers' to the internal Perl list: "i have program that needs to check every few hours whether condition is met.  right now, i go into infinite loop and check time() to see if enough has past.  any way to just tell program to go idle for some hours? thx"  i should tell him to sleep on it, maybe the problem will come to him in the morning.

[22:17] <fglock> clkao: ok

[22:18] <chip> irc.perl.org connection went down

[22:20] *** spinclad_ left
[22:21] <TimToady> society is to blame.

[22:22] <svnbot6> r11102 | gaal++ | * remove unneccessary method so that Data.Seq compiles on GHC 6.4.2 again

[22:22] <svnbot6> r11101 | ingy++ |  r2126@ingy:  ingy | 2006-07-03 11:44:37 -0700

[22:22] <svnbot6> r11101 | ingy++ |  Refactor v6.pm to use M-C-0.17 which does the .xxxc file check.

[22:22] <svnbot6> r11101 | ingy++ |  All add clean_files to Makefile.PL

[22:23] <nothingmuch> fglock: clkao has assigned me to you

[22:23] * ingy raises an eyebrow at svnbot6 

[22:25] <fglock> nothingmuch: I have 2 dirs in svn, I want to merge using svk

[22:25] <nothingmuch> how did you make the two dirs?

[22:25] <nothingmuch> svk cp in your checkout?

[22:26] <fglock> no, but clkao said he fixed it already

[22:26] <fglock> I only installed svk afterwards

[22:26] <nothingmuch> svn cp

[22:27] <nothingmuch> is also the same

[22:27] <nothingmuch> okay, so if clkao fixed it

[22:28] <fglock> can I convert the my svn checkout to svk?

[22:28] <nothingmuch> then it's probably going to be svk smerge -f path_to_branch  -t path_to_trunk

[22:28] <nothingmuch> you canj just check it out again

[22:28] <fglock> with 'svk co' ?

[22:29] <nothingmuch> yes

[22:29] <nothingmuch> svk co http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs

[22:29] <lambdabot> Title: "Revision 11075: /"

[22:29] <nothingmuch> or just the dir

[22:29] <nothingmuch> that will ask you to mirror

[22:29] <nothingmuch> you can accept the defaults

[22:29] <nothingmuch> but you probably don't want all

[22:30] <nothingmuch> because that will take hours

[22:30] <fglock> I'm trying with 'svn co -r HEAD http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs/ .

[22:30] <ingy> IT'S FASTER TO ORDER THE PUGS CD FROM AMAZON

[22:30] <lambdabot> Title: "Revision 11075: /"

[22:31] <fglock> done!

[22:31] <nothingmuch> i dunno how to merge with svn

[22:32] <fglock> nothingmuch: I'll retry with 'svk sm -C //path/to/px/fglock/pc-p6 //path/to/perl5/pc-p6' - clkao recommended

[22:32] <ZuluOne> Juerd: frequent

[22:33] <nothingmuch> clkao knows $n times better than me

[22:33] <Juerd> ZuluOne: That doesn't have to be random intervally

[22:33] <ZuluOne> doesn't have to be

[22:33] <ZuluOne> it has no connotations one way or t'other

[22:33] <Juerd> I'm looking for a word that does have the connotation of random intervals.

[22:34] <ZuluOne> I don't believe such a word exists, but I'll check.

[22:34] <fglock> nothingmuch: I get 'No such depot: home.'

[22:34] <nothingmuch> oi

[22:34] <nothingmuch> that seems beyond me

[22:34] <nothingmuch> did you check //path/to/px with svk?

[22:34] <fglock> oops - I type svn instead of svk before - one sec.

[22:36] <ZuluOne> Recurrent has a very slight connection of irregularity.

[22:36] <ZuluOne> Intermittent might be OK: depends on the context.

[22:38] <ZuluOne> Fitful is quite a good fit, but would sound weird in a technical context.

[22:38] <ZuluOne> Of course, the obvious solution is just "irregular."

[22:39] <ZuluOne> What actually is the context?

[22:40] <fglock> nothingmuch - I'll finish later - thanks! &

[22:41] <nothingmuch> fglock: ok

[22:43] <svnbot6> r11103 | gaal++ | * Add ghci quickfix-able mode for vim

[22:44] *** fglock left
[22:44] <gaal> audreyt: cp ~gaal/.vim/plugin/Align* to your dir

[22:45] <gaal> every other .hs-writing vim user: http://vim.sourceforge.net/scripts/script.php?script_id=294

[22:45] <lambdabot> Title: "Align - Provides commands and maps to help produce aligned text, eqns, declarati ..."

[22:46] <ZuluOne> Juerd?

[22:47] <dduncan> coming up fast ...

[22:47] <dduncan> so who wants to do commit #11111?

[22:47] <dduncan> the likes of which only comes about every 11111

[22:49] <lumi> Juerd: Sporadically?

[22:49] <Juerd> Not often enough :)

[22:50] <ZuluOne> Juerd: What is the context?

[22:51] <Juerd> I think I was looking for intermittent.

[22:51] <ZuluOne> k

[22:51] <Juerd> ZuluOne: An alarm system that beeps.

[22:51] <ZuluOne> yep, sounds like intermittent

[22:52] <Juerd> thesaurus++  # found it, beginning at irregular

[22:52] <Juerd> Is English the only language that has this phenomenon (thesaurus)?

[22:52] <ingy> rgs: YAML-0.62 uploaded

[22:52] <ZuluOne> There is no problem that Roget's cannot solve.

[22:53] <Juerd> ZuluOne: The halting problem?

[22:53] <ZuluOne> If the halting problem is that you can't find a synonym for it, then sure :->

[22:54] <lumi> It turns it into a hesitant bother

[22:56] <ZuluOne> 145 Cessation: change from action to rest

[22:56] <Juerd> Good night

[22:56] <ZuluOne> gnight

[23:13] * rafl needs testers for http://files.perldition.org/pugs_local_packages_conf.diff

[23:14] <audreyt> rafl: commit it

[23:14] <audreyt> and you get testers

[23:14] <audreyt> automatically

[23:14] <rafl> audreyt: I don't have the bandwidth to update my svk co and merge it, sorry.

[23:14] <rafl> audreyt: Could you commit it, please?

[23:15] <rafl> audreyt: The patch currently works fine for compiling pugs. I'm not sure what happens if it get's installed, yet.

[23:17] <audreyt> ok

[23:17] <audreyt> testing

[23:20] * rafl goes for a cigarette in the meantime.

[23:23] <ingy> stevan: ping

[23:24] <svnbot6> r11104 | gaal++ | * handle multi-line errors (which ghc is likely to produce :-)

[23:29] *** diotalevi joined
[23:31] *** cognominal joined
[23:40] <vsoni> hi audreyt

[23:44] * xerox pokes audreyt 

[23:45] <audreyt> pong

[23:45] *** Entonian joined
[23:50] * rafl goes to bed

[23:50] <rafl> Good night everyone

