[00:01] <svnbot6> r11520 | kolibrie++ | test for overriding <ws> in a grammar

[00:06] *** trym joined
[00:10] <kolibrie> audreyt: I guessed at the correct output for t/rules/grammar.t (r11520), because it does not work here

[00:11] <clkao> 456 tests pass today

[00:11] <kolibrie> clkao: awesome!

[00:12] <clkao> now i really want a diff tool for ttm. nothingmuch: you said you have one?

[00:12] <kolibrie> audreyt: can you test it on your laptop and elsewhere?

[00:12] <nothingmuch> clkao: yes

[00:12] <nothingmuch> look in the TTH docs

[00:12] <nothingmuch> all you need is to initialize it with several models

[00:12] <nothingmuch> and it'll create Test::TAP::Model::Consolidated for you

[00:12] <nothingmuch> but note that there are a few bugs

[00:12] <nothingmuch> i can iron them out if you get errors in the template

[00:12] <clkao> are you gogin to fix them?

[00:12] <nothingmuch> because I know what they are

[00:12] <nothingmuch> but i just haven't cared so far since nobody used that feature

[00:15] * nothingmuch bounces

[00:15] <nothingmuch> exit row seat exit row seat exit row seat!

[00:17] <svnbot6> r11521 | fglock++ | v6 and PCR - various fixes in the precedence table

[00:20] <kolibrie> pmichaud: okay, your nopaste yapc_schedule.pl worked, though is not so elegant

[00:21] <kolibrie> pmichaud: however, I had to change all the backslashed angles to the <'literal'> form, otherwise I got a PGE error

[00:22] <kolibrie> pmichaud: *** Cannot parse PGE: <schedule>

[00:25] <clkao> summon fglock

[00:26] <nothingmuch> FGLOCK FGLOCK FGLOCK RISE FROM THE PITS OF DOOM AND WALK AMONGST US!

[00:27] <pmichaud> kolibrie: if you're getting "Cannot parse PGE", do you have PARROT_PATH set?

[00:27] <pmichaud> I don't think it's a PGE bug

[00:27] * nnunley gets bleading MAD.

[00:27] <pmichaud> it worked fine for me with the backslashed angles

[00:27] * nothingmuch gives nnunley some valium

[00:28] <nnunley> The source was not strong with me.

[00:29] <pmichaud> also, just because the message says "PGE" in it doesn't mean that the error is in PGE :-)

[00:30] <clkao> fglock, common, all we need is [1..4] to get 02-test-pm all pass

[00:36] <kolibrie> pmichaud: the only change I made was converting all the \<small\> to <'<small>'>, etc.

[00:36] <kolibrie> pmichaud: with the backslashes it gets the error

[00:37] <TimToady> j

[00:37] <kolibrie> pmichaud: it could be something outside of PGE, maybe.  I don't know parrot or the pugs bridge really well

[00:38] <clkao> fglock, you broke &&

[00:39] <gaal> nothingmuch: ping

[00:39] <nothingmuch> gaal: you should be spleeping!

[00:39] <nothingmuch> anywho

[00:40] <gaal> true dat.

[00:40] <nothingmuch> i planned on that actually

[00:40] <gaal> but I missed my sleepy time

[00:40] <nothingmuch> so i'm kinda busy

[00:40] <nothingmuch> oi =(

[00:40] <nothingmuch> well, at least no worky tomorrow

[00:40] <nothingmuch> use orz

[00:40] <clkao> do more hiking

[00:40] <gaal> use HebrewWeek; use Friday;

[00:41] <nothingmuch> short story: i'm not sure the slot calculation stuff is 100% correct in the MOP.hs file

[00:41] <nothingmuch> so i wanna go over and be sure

[00:41] <nothingmuch> since I waws very very picky over this to stevan

[00:41] <nothingmuch> till he got it into moose

[00:41] <gaal> clkao: made a small urban trip today with a friend who just bought a bike

[00:41] <nothingmuch> because I designed it to be really for perl 6

[00:41] <gaal> nothingmuch: excellent, please drop everything else and let's go over it now. :)

[00:41] <nothingmuch> ug ug ug

[00:42] <nothingmuch> i am breaking moose right now

[00:42] <nothingmuch> slaughtering it, in fact

[00:42] <gaal> don't do that

[00:42] <nothingmuch> on a branch

[00:42] <nothingmuch> it's a branch, it's OK

[00:42] <gaal> yes, moose have no business on trees anyway

[00:42] <nothingmuch> but i'm on ritalin withdrawl and I can't be distracted

[00:42] <gaal> if thy venture there, I guess it's fair game.

[00:42] <nothingmuch> or i will definitely not get it done ;-)

[00:42] <nothingmuch> damn you audreyt !

[00:42] <gaal> blah blah

[00:43] <gaal> withdrawl alek

[00:43] <nothingmuch> ;-)

[00:43] <gaal> two days and you're a junkie

[00:43] <nothingmuch> actually i was kidding, i'm actually on a fairly good day

[00:43] *** weinig is now known as weinig|foood

[00:43] <nothingmuch> despite various distractions i managed to get a bit of stuff done

[00:44] <nothingmuch> but either way I'm out of the ritalin, at least till i go see a doctor or meet ingy/audrey ;-)

[00:44] <gaal> so, is stevan about? I can badger him

[00:44] <nothingmuch> no, he's watching star trek with the kids

[00:45] <nothingmuch> also, i'm the evil guy behind that part

[00:45] <nothingmuch> i am sorry

[00:45] <nothingmuch> i just really promised to finish this

[00:46] <gaal> that's okay. have fun

[00:46] <gaal> when's your flight?

[00:46] <nothingmuch> tomorrow morning

[00:46] <nothingmuch> i leave at around 10ish

[00:46] <nothingmuch> and fly out at 16:30

[00:46] <gaal> oh.

[00:46] <nothingmuch> (arriving an hour too early at the airport, but at least it's a direct train)

[00:46] * gaal proposes a short TLV Hackathon

[00:46] <nothingmuch> i land on saturday morning

[00:46] <nothingmuch> next week?

[00:47] <nothingmuch> or maybe i can even come in the middle of the week

[00:47] <gaal> I assume it'll take you a week to recover from jet lag

[00:47] <nothingmuch> now that i work on my own terms

[00:47] <gaal> I don't, not quite :/

[00:47] <nothingmuch> usually 2 days or so

[00:47] <nothingmuch> no wait, it's the bad direction

[00:47] <gaal> yeah

[00:47] <nothingmuch> i'd say 3-4 days

[00:48] <gaal> anymoose, we can talk when you get here

[00:48] <nothingmuch> yes

[00:48] <nothingmuch> we shall

[00:48] <gaal> what row are you on the plane?

[00:48] <nothingmuch> we shall!

[00:48] <nothingmuch> oops

[00:49] <nothingmuch> i was typing "exit row woohoo yeah!" and accidentally hit the up arrow while pressing shift

[00:49] <gaal> what row *number*? :)

[00:49] <nothingmuch> gaal++; # suggesting online check in

[00:49] <nothingmuch> 32

[00:49] <nothingmuch> what does it matter? i don't even know what kind of plane it is

[00:49] <gaal> awrk. rows <= 20 have 'lectricity

[00:49] <nothingmuch> i don't work well on planes anyway

[00:50] <nothingmuch> my brain shuts off after an hour and a half

[00:50] <nothingmuch> i never finished the battery even now that i don't have 2 of em

[00:50] <nothingmuch> so i'm not worried about wasted time

[00:50] <gaal> just enough time to svk ci notes into MOP.hs :)

[00:50] <nothingmuch> i'll try

[00:50] <nothingmuch> but i'm really stupid and burnt out on flights ;-)

[00:50] <gaal> anyway, I'm not going to sit here and be your procrastinatory excuse! go do those things you have to do :-P

[00:51] <gaal> and: 777, likely.

[00:51] <nothingmuch> thank you sir

[00:52] <gaal> for whipping you to work or for the pickle jar?

[00:53] <gaal> (wow, that was an obscure joke)

[00:53] <nothingmuch> yes it was

[00:53] * nothingmuch chuckles in a fake manner

[00:53] * gaal eyes the whip

[00:53] * nothingmuch ponders getting an aeron chair

[00:54] <nothingmuch> stevan has an old one

[00:54] <nothingmuch> i've been sitting on it all week

[00:54] <nothingmuch> and it's very nice

[00:54] <gaal> go work already :)

[00:54] <nothingmuch> i am working

[00:54] <gaal> ha!

[00:58] <lumi> gaal & nothingmuch: Could I stare at that stuff with you two when you hack it?

[00:58] <gaal> lumi: please do join us!

[00:59] <lumi> Eggcelent. :P

[00:59] <lumi> btw is there a trick to using rules? I'm getting "Broken pipe" when I try anything at all

[00:59] <lumi> A trick to building rulesfully

[00:59] <clkao> nothingmuch: i think we need some aggregated ttm - for a test in rX, environment Y, backend Z

[01:00] <clkao> so we can do easy query on X-1 same environment, or X other environment

[01:00] <clkao> etc

[01:00] <gaal> lumi: is your parrot embedded?

[01:00] <gaal> i'm guessing not

[01:00] *** justatheory joined
[01:00] <lumi> Yeah

[01:00] <lumi> Should be anyway, I set the path, and put it in the env var

[01:00] <gaal> strace?

[01:01] <lumi> Eek

[01:01] <lumi> I'd need nuffin's help, I haven't used the Mac trace facilities

[01:01] <gaal> Eek indeed. Scary Macs.

[01:02] <gaal> I think it's aix like. strart trace daemon, do stuff, stop trace daemon and analzse dump.

[01:04] <lumi> Eurgh. I have a trace. What next?

[01:04] <gaal> what happened before the signal?

[01:04] <gaal> and: is thre an exec there?

[01:04] <gaal> (if there is, you don't have an embedded parrot)

[01:05] <lumi> AFAICT yes, it's spawning a parrot

[01:05] <lumi> Which is weird. Maybe I needed to make clean at some point

[01:06] <gaal> looks it. I'm betting you're running against a different version than the one you compiled against.

[01:06] <gaal> also check carefully the perl Makefile.PL output to see if it gave up on embedding

[01:06] <nothingmuch> clkao: that's what my smoke server does

[01:06] <nothingmuch> ask zev to integrate the code

[01:06] <nothingmuch> i showed him how easy it is =)

[01:07] *** khisanth_ joined
[01:07] <nothingmuch> lumi: ktrace

[01:07] <nothingmuch> and then kdump

[01:07] <gaal> one mouse button, two trace commands.

[01:07] *** khisanth_ is now known as Khisanth

[01:08] <lumi> I had a vague recollection that it was ktrace, and man did the rest :P

[01:08] <lumi> I may have one mouse button, but I have four modifier keys

[01:08] <nothingmuch> gaal: it's called "decoupling" ;-)

[01:08] <nothingmuch> 5

[01:08] <lumi> Oh um

[01:08] <lumi> Yes, shift is a modifier key indeed

[01:08] <nothingmuch> also, esc does mod when alt isn't meta

[01:08] <nothingmuch> in e.g. terminal stuff

[01:08] <lumi> A real space cadet kb

[01:09] <nothingmuch> clkao: so how do i get your neighbors' tea?

[01:11] <svnbot6> r11522 | fglock++ | v6 - 'use perl5:CGI'

[01:11] <lumi> Parrot.hsc:346:5: error: token ""0.4.5-devel"" is not valid in preprocessor expressions

[01:11] <lumi> But everything keeps running

[01:11] <lumi> Building (sorry)

[01:13] <clkao> nothingmuch: uhm, send me a hiveminder task about how much you want etc

[01:13] <obra> clkao++ # corporate shill

[01:13] <nothingmuch> clkao@bp ?

[01:13] <clkao> nah. it's actually useful

[01:13] <clkao> nothingmuch: yes please

[01:13] <clkao> otherwise i lost track

[01:14] <nothingmuch> how does it know to complete your email?

[01:14] <nothingmuch> isn't that bad for privacy?

[01:14] <nothingmuch> or is it because we share a group or you've mailed me before?

[01:14] <gaal> aren't you in the same group or something?

[01:14] *** fglock_ joined
[01:15] <gaal> hmm though the inviter isn't necessarily trusted

[01:15] <gaal> point.

[01:15] * fglock_ walks in

[01:16] <lumi> Do I need a particular parrot? I built latest from svn

[01:16] <gaal> lumi: probably good choice

[01:17] <fglock_> clkao: && works for me

[01:17] <clkao> fglock_: you broke 03

[01:17] <lumi> gaal: Any idea what  that error I had is?

[01:17] <gaal> lumi: nope, but let me look...

[01:18] <gaal> (hsc is preprocessed into hs, for ffi stuff)

[01:18] <gaal> ooof svk pull is so slow :(

[01:19] <clkao> of course that's svk's fault

[01:19] <gaal> it's pugs' fault for being so active

[01:19] <gaal> and light's fault really for being so slow

[01:20] <gaal> but clkao go ahead, fix that :)

[01:21] <gaal> is there a lot of round tripping in a pull that basically gets n remote updates? or is the data to be xferred computed once and transmitted as a bulk?

[01:21] <gaal> because roundtripping to taiwan hurts

[01:22] * audreyt raises the "set up svn on feather and migrate to it" janitor task again

[01:23] <gaal> audreyt: is that a covert means of encouraging you to erdos a lot?

[01:24] <audreyt> yes.

[01:24] <fglock_> clkao: fixed

[01:24] <vsoni> audreyt: Are there any thread safe scanner/lexers

[01:24] <audreyt> vsoni: Lemon

[01:25] <gaal> ah, I get it. the version string "0.4.5-devel" is not comparable with the ">" that's in the hsc

[01:25] <audreyt> gaal: oh?

[01:25] <audreyt> aw.

[01:25] <svnbot6> r11523 | fglock++ | v6 - 'say' emits a function

[01:25] <audreyt> vsoni: flex?

[01:25] <gaal> I suppose, lumi, that hacking your parrot working copy to discard the -devel from the announced version will "fix" that...

[01:25] <lumi> Yeah, I guess it ought not grab the "devel" maybe

[01:25] <kolibrie> audreyt: can you check that test I added: t/rules/grammar.t

[01:26] <lumi> Changing whatever re's grabbing it that way might be better

[01:26] <gaal> probably :)

[01:26] <lumi> I'll do it when build ends maybe

[01:26] <audreyt> kolibrie: checking

[01:26] <lumi> Right now my poor g4's cycles are being eaten by ghc

[01:26] <vsoni> audreyt:  is not reenterant?

[01:27] * gaal has no pity for g4 cycles

[01:27] <audreyt> vsoni: flex with -R

[01:27] <lumi> Heh

[01:27] <gaal> lumi: I don'

[01:27] <gaal> t know where PARROT_VERSION is schlepped from

[01:27] <gaal> it may be a parrot include. audreyt?

[01:27] <kolibrie> audreyt: I had to change the backslashes to <'literal'> form, otherwise I was getting PGE errors.  Patrick said it's not PGE.  Any ideas?

[01:28] <audreyt> vsoni: oh wait, only in C++ mode

[01:28] <vsoni> audreyt:  yep...

[01:28] <lumi> gaal: Yeah, iswim, problem

[01:29] <gaal> well we can always autogen the hsc file :)

[01:29] <lumi> I don't know cpp well enough

[01:29] <gaal> no, cpp is too late

[01:29] <lumi> Hmm

[01:30] *** fglock_ left
[01:30] <gaal> we need smth -> hsc -> hs -> c -> nirvana

[01:30] <gaal> long is the path of the righteous etc.

[01:30] <lumi> hsc can #include "parrot_ver"

[01:30] <lumi> Shorter

[01:30] <gaal> heh, indeed.

[01:30] <gaal> faster too.

[01:31] <lumi> Pugs AST has too many internals

[01:31] <gaal> no kidding!

[01:31] <audreyt> vsoni: re2c

[01:32] <audreyt> vsoni: http://re2c.org/

[01:32] <lambdabot> Title: "re2c Home"

[01:32] <lumi> If only you could #include `parrot -v | perl -e ...`

[01:32] <lumi> cpp is insufficiently advanced

[01:32] <vsoni> audreyt: thanks audreyt

[01:32] <gaal> yes, instead of magick you get only the ick.

[01:33] <audreyt> vsoni: also c2lib may be interesting, but unrelated

[01:33] <audreyt> vsoni: re2c+lemon looks like a winner.

[01:34] <gaal> lumi: src/Pugs/pugs_config.h is the place to put this probably. use something like CLEAN_PARROT_VERSION

[01:34] <gaal> commit and see if it works? (or the other way around)

[01:34] <gaal> I think I'll try to sleep a bit now :)

[01:34] <gaal> good night :)  &

[01:35] <kolibrie> gaal: isn't it morning there?

[01:35] <gaal> soon

[01:35] <kolibrie> sleep well

[01:36] <gaal> thanks :)

[01:36] <lumi> Nite gaal

[01:36] <gaal> z&

[01:37] <audreyt> kolibrie: <''> doesn't appear to play well

[01:37] <kolibrie> audreyt: I had just the opposite, see if backslashes work

[01:38] <lumi> What gens this pugs_config.h?

[01:38] <audreyt> oh wait

[01:38] <audreyt> token speaker { [\w|\s]+ }

[01:38] <audreyt> you had it

[01:38] <audreyt> token speaker { \w[\w|\s]+ }

[01:38] <audreyt> the first worked for me

[01:39] <kolibrie> oh yes, that is different, sorry

[01:39] <audreyt> and that alone fixed it.

[01:39] <audreyt> I changed it to \w+

[01:39] <audreyt> r11524

[01:39] <audreyt> see if it worksforyou

[01:40] <audreyt> brb

[01:40] <svnbot6> r11524 | audreyt++ | * grammar.t -- make it pass here by adjusting the rules a bit.

[01:40] <audreyt> and maybe <''> would work too

[01:40] <audreyt> if so, change the tests back

[01:40] * kolibrie pulls

[01:43] * nothingmuch wants his prodigy album returned

[01:46] <pasteling> "kolibrie" at 66.160.90.8 pasted "grammar.t output when there are backslashes instead of <''>" (7 lines, 283B) at http://sial.org/pbot/18385

[01:47] <pasteling> "kolibrie" at 66.160.90.8 pasted "grammar.t output with <''>" (12 lines, 343B) at http://sial.org/pbot/18386

[01:48] <kolibrie> audreyt: so the first error is kind of weird, and seems to mess up the PGE bridge? completely

[01:49] <kolibrie> audreyt: and when PGE runs, the final test matches nothing here

[01:52] <ingy> hi nothingmuch

[01:52] <nothingmuch> ingy: hi

[01:53] <nothingmuch> what's up?

[01:53] <svnbot6> r11525 | kolibrie++ | grammar.t - switched back to <''> form

[01:53] <ingy> 8^B

[01:53] <ingy> nuffin hunny

[01:54] <nothingmuch> look, i have an ascii moose on my webpage: http://nothingmuch.woobling.org/

[01:54] <lambdabot> Title: "Yuval Kogman's Link Farm"

[01:54] <nothingmuch> ain't it preeeetty

[01:54] <ingy> yes darlin

[01:54] <audreyt> kolibrie: all grammar.t still pass for me

[01:54] <audreyt> kolibrie: head parrot

[01:54] <nothingmuch> yay! all tests pass

[01:55] <nothingmuch> (all failing tests removed ;-)

[01:55] <audreyt> kolibrie: it is possible that you are running old parrot, I think

[01:55] <audreyt> but hm.

[01:55] <nothingmuch> clkao: star merge sanity check:

[01:55] <nothingmuch> can i branch a branch in a trunk/branches topology

[01:55] <nothingmuch> and then push back up wards to the previous branch

[01:55] <nothingmuch> and then back up from that

[01:55] <nothingmuch> in two steps?

[01:55] * clkao is so happy to be able to run: ./prove6 t/rules/grammar.t

[01:56] <nothingmuch> or will smerge go all the way

[01:56] <clkao> nothingmuch: yes

[01:56] * nothingmuch hugs clkao 

[01:56] <clkao> nothingmuch: so, you want tea. in different batch?

[01:56] <nothingmuch> i want the green tea we had

[01:56] <nothingmuch> and maybe something else too

[01:56] <kolibrie> audreyt: I have tried on three computers, the grammar fails to match on any of them

[01:56] <nothingmuch> if you can think of a nice idea

[01:57] <clkao> you want them sent in different batch?

[01:57] <audreyt> kolibrie: indeed. do we have a new parrot built on feather?

[01:57] <audreyt> kolibrie: I can try on feather

[01:57] <nothingmuch> clkao: one package is good

[01:57] <clkao> ok

[01:57] <nothingmuch> it doesn't need to be partitioned

[01:57] <clkao> i will process that

[01:57] <lumi> So tell me of this tea, please

[01:57] <clkao> uhm, more tea requests?

[01:57] <kolibrie> kolibrie: I built on in ~kolibre/parrot

[01:57] <nothingmuch> lumi: clkao lived (lives?) by a plantation in .tw

[01:57] <nothingmuch> that makes very nice tea

[01:58] <clkao> i think best practical should start selling hackers tea

[01:58] <nothingmuch> that would be a nice service

[01:58] <kolibrie> audreyt: but now I'm getting: Cannot find the parrot executable in PATH

[01:58] <nothingmuch> will it be in webapp form?

[01:58] <audreyt> kolibrie: add it to PATH

[01:58] <audreyt> export PATH=$PATH:/home/path/to/parrot

[01:58] <clkao> we need to build a jifty ecommerce site

[01:58] <nothingmuch> lumi: anyway, i'm asking him to send me some from .tw

[01:58] <nothingmuch> because i really liked what I had during the obrathon

[01:58] <nothingmuch> and while hiking

[01:59] <clkao> but you need the water from the pond

[01:59] <nothingmuch> we may still have some ;-)

[01:59] <lumi> And some evil eggs?

[01:59] <nothingmuch> actually

[01:59] <nothingmuch> did we make the tea from the cola bottle?

[01:59] <nothingmuch> oh wait

[01:59] <nothingmuch> the last tea was definitely from garfield pond

[02:00] <kolibrie> audreyt: PATH worked, grammar.t still fails last test on feather

[02:00] <audreyt> kolibrie: what's the PATH to parrot on feather?

[02:00] <nothingmuch> clkao: i hate svk because if i have vim .swp files it won't let me branch

[02:00] <nothingmuch> err

[02:00] <nothingmuch> not hate

[02:00] <nothingmuch> svk sucks becauase

[02:01] <nothingmuch> (Sorry, i got carried away ;-)

[02:01] <kolibrie> audreyt: ~kolibrie/parrot

[02:02] <audreyt> kolibrie: it's all my fault

[02:02] <audreyt> sorry for wasting you one day of time

[02:03] <audreyt> parrot r13788 :)

[02:03] <audreyt> r 13288

[02:03] <audreyt> (I had noncommitted local changes.)

[02:03] <kolibrie> audreyt: ood

[02:03] <kolibrie> ooh, rather

[02:03] <kolibrie> audreyt: now it works?

[02:03] <audreyt> yup

[02:04] <audreyt> sync up to latest parrot

[02:04] <audreyt> and it'd work

[02:04] * kolibrie ups

[02:05] <kolibrie> does parrot need realclean?

[02:05] <audreyt> no

[02:05] <audreyt> just "make"

[02:05] <audreyt> not even "make" is needed in this case

[02:05] <kolibrie> that easy?

[02:05] <audreyt> yeah

[02:05] <kolibrie> audreyt: looky there!

[02:06] <audreyt> anticlimatic, I know

[02:06] <kolibrie> audreyt: will pmichaud be upset?  he keeps claiming it shouldn't work?

[02:06] <audreyt> I don't know

[02:06] <audreyt> maybe he'll fix PGE so that it stops working?

[02:06] <audreyt> j/k :)

[02:07] <kolibrie> that would be just my nightmare

[02:08] * kolibrie envisions presenting to programming staff at $work and suddenly having it stop working

[02:09] <kolibrie> for production I'll really rather do it under v6, though

[02:10] <kolibrie> audreyt: you may have noticed the namespace test it grammar.t, that was to test namespaces, but now that is gone, and untested

[02:11] * kolibrie isn't quite sure how to test importing a grammar anyway, so the test may not have even worked before

[02:12] <kolibrie> audreyt: anyway, thank you much and &

[02:27] *** fglock_ joined
[02:29] <svnbot6> r11526 | fglock++ | v6 - parser: fixed circumfix:<[ ]>, postcircumfix:<[ ]>, $exp.[], .[]

[02:29] <svnbot6> r11526 | fglock++ | - fixed an infinite loop in parser (retry null match)

[02:29] <svnbot6> r11526 | fglock++ | - no semicolons inside [] yet

[02:30] <meppl> gute nacht

[02:33] <fglock_> Schlaf gut

[02:33] <meppl> ;)

[03:57] *** ilogger2 joined
[03:57] *** leptonix joined
[03:58] *** ajs_home joined
[03:58] *** thepler joined
[04:06] *** szbalint joined
[04:25] *** orafu joined
[04:27] *** pasteling0 joined
[04:37] *** Yappo joined
[04:43] *** xinming joined
[05:13] *** lambdabot joined
[05:15] *** xinming joined
[05:20] *** miyagawa joined
[05:50] *** xinming joined
[05:59] *** merlyn joined
[06:08] *** lambdabot joined
[06:13] *** lambdabot joined
[06:20] *** xinming joined
[06:47] *** mauke_ joined
[06:47] *** xinming joined
[06:50] *** cmarcelo left
[07:02] *** mauke_ is now known as mauke

[07:04] *** Aankhen`` joined
[07:10] *** iblechbot joined
[07:17] *** drrho joined
[07:20] *** xinming joined
[07:29] *** masak joined
[08:09] *** nothingmuch joined
[08:29] <gaal> nothingmuch: are those just random hikers you met on the trail?

[08:29] *** wilx joined
[09:04] *** xerox is now known as xerox_

[09:05] *** xerox joined
[09:05] *** revision17_ joined
[09:05] *** xerox joined
[09:07] *** jabbot joined
[09:27] *** beppu joined
[10:22] *** andara joined
[10:58] *** beppu joined
[11:12] *** chris2 joined
[11:22] *** ludan joined
[11:42] *** wesle1 joined
[12:14] *** bpphillips joined
[12:36] <nothingmuch> gaal: yes

[12:44] *** froh-doh joined
[12:46] *** scook0 joined
[12:53] <nothingmuch> see you guys in ~18 hours

[12:54] <nothingmuch> (worst case scenario that does not include a crash ;-)

[13:13] *** nova-alpha joined
[13:13] <nova-alpha> hi

[13:17] <broquaint> Hola.

[13:19] *** Jedai joined
[13:20] *** xinming joined
[13:27] *** wesle1 joined
[13:28] *** lisppaste3 joined
[13:28] *** lumi joined
[13:36] *** mj41_ joined
[13:37] *** stevan joined
[13:53] *** buetow joined
[13:59] *** buetow joined
[14:01] *** vel joined
[14:07] *** fglock joined
[14:07] *** nova joined
[14:08] *** Qiang joined
[14:20] *** lisppaste3 joined
[14:21] *** kanru joined
[14:26] *** cjeris joined
[14:32] *** andara joined
[14:43] *** kane_ joined
[14:46] *** f0rth joined
[14:51] *** f0rth_ joined
[14:52] *** hexmode joined
[14:54] *** chris2 joined
[14:58] *** mj41_ joined
[14:59] *** orafu joined
[15:02] *** lollan joined
[15:03] *** mako132 joined
[15:10] *** elmex joined
[15:14] <kolibrie> I tried running examples/rules/yapc_schedule.pl against the actual schedule (http://yapcchicago.org/the-schedule/monday) and on feather it took forever (20 minutes) so I killed it, and locally I get *** Cannot parse PGE: <schedule>\n*** Error: no ICU lib loaded

[15:14] <lambdabot> Title: YAPC::NA 2006 » Monday

[15:15] *** ivanfrey joined
[15:34] <ajs> Garrrr! I missed the Boston.pm talk!

[15:34] <ajs> <--- ijut

[15:36] <cjeris> I wrote a few tests in t/operators/hyper.t for hyperoperators distributing into subarrays like -<<(1, [2, 3]).  Since I'm new to p6, could someone spare a moment to idiot-check them before I commit?

[15:36] <pasteling0> "cjeris" at 140.247.124.140 pasted "new hyperop distribution tests" (63 lines, 2.1K) at http://sial.org/pbot/18394

[15:37] <kolibrie> cjeris: generally the rule is commit and then people can update

[15:38] <cjeris> kolibrie: ok.  I didn't want to break something if the rule was in the other direction

[15:39] <kolibrie> cjeris: thanks for asking, and welcome aboard

[15:39] <cjeris> kolibrie: thanks!

[15:43] * kolibrie apt-gets libicu34-dev

[15:44] *** justatheory joined
[15:47] *** DaGo joined
[16:01] <masak> cjeris: the tests look good by me

[16:02] <cjeris> masak: cool, thank you!

[16:09] *** ruoso joined
[16:17] *** iblechbot joined
[16:17] <clkao> appearantly the installable devel::caller is already on cpan

[16:35] *** amnesiac joined
[16:38] <stevan> the Connecticut hackathon is now over, nothingmuch is on his train (to catch his plane)

[16:39] <stevan> much m??sey goodness has come out of it though :)

[16:39] <xerox> You do lots of hackatons, meetings, and conferences, men!

[16:39] <kolibrie> (moose)++

[16:40] <stevan> We got some good m??se pics of the kids and the dog as well

[16:40] <xerox> There seem to be always some conference going on here, unlike other programming language channels.

[16:40] <stevan> xerox: I think it is really a seasonal thing

[16:40] *** dbrunton joined
[16:41] <xerox> Since you are lambdacamels it may be of interest to you <http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/History_of_Haskell>.

[16:41] <stevan> things calm down in the winter (nothern hemisphere winter to be exact)

[16:41] <stevan> xerox: do you know where I can find the SPJ paper on the history of Haskell? I was told it is an excellent read

[16:42] * stevan reads the first paragraph and withdraws the question

[16:42] <xerox> Check that link.

[16:42] <xerox> It is also from Hudak, Hughes, and Wadler. All the sages :-)

[16:42] <stevan> I should read first,.. ask questions later :)

[16:47] <PerlJam> stevan: be sure to read section 12.4.4

[16:47] *** Daveman joined
[16:50] <fglock> clkao: ping

[17:07] <audreyt> g'morning

[17:07] <audreyt> stevan: so nothingmuch isn't going back to Boston?

[17:07] <stevan> audreyt: no, he is flying back to .il

[17:08] <audreyt> awww.

[17:08] <audreyt> too bad

[17:08] <audreyt> guess I'll meet him in OSDC.il then

[17:09] <stevan> yeha we wanted to try and come back up, but $work is too crazy for me right now

[17:12] <stevan> audreyt: how much longer will you be in Boston?

[17:12] <audreyt> stevan: 8 days

[17:12] <stevan> then to OSCON?

[17:12] <audreyt> yup

[17:13] <stevan> nothingmuch and I are going to work up 3 talks for YAPC & OSCON next year

[17:13] <stevan> and maybe try to submit a paper to OOPSLA on Moose/MOP/Perl6MM

[17:13] <audreyt> I'll be in OOPSLA

[17:13] <stevan> cool

[17:14] <audreyt> or rather, DLS

[17:14] <stevan> DLS?

[17:14] <audreyt> http://www.oopsla.org/2006/submission/tracks/dynamic_languages_symposium.html

[17:14] <lambdabot> Title: OOPSLA 2006

[17:14] <stevan> ah yes

[17:14] <stevan> I think I read about this on LtU

[17:14] <audreyt> <- this year's invited speaker

[17:15] <stevan> very nice :)

[17:15] <audreyt> maybe I get to present your paper :D

[17:15] <stevan> we are thinking next year

[17:15] <audreyt> ah ok.

[17:15] <stevan> by then Moose/MOP stuff should be worked out

[17:15] <audreyt> nodnod

[17:15] <audreyt> that'd b wonderful

[17:15] <audreyt> s/b/be/

[17:16] <stevan> we actually discussed a nice refactor to the method protocol which will allow us to layer a really nice query interface over the MOP

[17:16] <stevan> which will make MOP actions really really simple

[17:16] <audreyt> query as in structural query?

[17:16] <audreyt> or as in relational query?

[17:16] <stevan> uhm,... neither, and kind of both :)

[17:16] <stevan> it is still a rough idea

[17:17] <audreyt> mooseish query then

[17:17] <stevan> yes :)

[17:17] <stevan> we basically realized that several features would be greatly simplified by a more unified and consitent iteration interface

[17:17] * audreyt decides to fix Win32 build breakage first

[17:17] <audreyt> ah. yup

[17:17] <stevan> and what good are iterators if you cant filter then nicely :)

[17:18] <stevan> I will let the ADD do the rest of the connecting of the dots :)

[17:18] <stevan> it also simplifies the Moose::Visualized module which I have been pondering for a while now

[17:20] *** SamB joined
[17:21] <audreyt> yup

[17:22] <audreyt> a vision for moose

[17:22] <stevan> m??se g??gles

[17:30] *** kudra joined
[17:30] <kudra> hi

[17:31] <kolibrie> hi kudra

[17:41] <audreyt> kudra: hi

[17:41] <kudra> that was a double hello :)

[17:43] <ajs> Question about enum: Would "enum x <<a b c>>; sub foo(x :$n,$m); foo :n<a>, 2;" pass :n<'a'> or :n<x::a> to foo?

[17:43] <ajs> In other words, does the a get auto-quoted when the named parameter is expecting an enum?

[17:46] <PerlJam> ajs: X<a> is equivalent to X{'a'} always

[17:46] <PerlJam> (or so I believe :)

[17:46] <PerlJam> for the latter, you'd have to do :n(a)  (assuming that really works)

[17:48] <audreyt> yup and yup

[17:49] <ajs> Well, gah! That's just unfun....

[17:50] <ajs> Thanks for the info, though.

[17:50] <ajs> So, the example for the round function will be: my $n_rounded = round :dir(RoundEven), $n;

[17:55] <PerlJam> Why is it called :dir?

[17:56] <PerlJam> round :semantics(RoundEven), $n

[17:56] <PerlJam> round :semantics(IEEE), $n

[17:56] <PerlJam> (or something)

[17:57] <PerlJam> dir implies "direction" to me and that doesn't make sense.

[17:57] <pmichaud_> actually, I first read it as "directory"

[17:57] <pmichaud_> "What do directories have to do with rounding?"  <-- my first reaction

[17:57] <PerlJam> round :semantics(Floor), $n; round :semantics(Ceiling), $n;   #  :-)

[17:57] <ajs> PerlJam: ... because it's a direction. There are seven directions associated with rounding numbers: up, down, positive infinity, negative infinity, even, odd, random.

[17:58] <ajs> Don't confuse this with floor/ceiling. That's not a parameter to round!

[17:58] <pmichaud_> almost makes me wish for  :up, :down, :even, :odd, ...

[17:58] <ajs> round only does the closest whole number. The only question is what you do with .5

[17:59] <PerlJam> pmichaud_: but then what happens when they ask for  round :up :down, $n  ?

[17:59] <ajs> I really dislike adding :foo and :bar when the they are mutually exclusive

[17:59] <pmichaud_> but it *reads* better

[17:59] <ajs> round :up, :down, $n does not read better

[17:59] <PerlJam> ajs: who actually would use "random" ?

[18:00] <PerlJam> maybe for testing.

[18:00] <PerlJam> but not "for real"

[18:00] <ajs> PerlJam: random rounding directionality is used very often in statistical circles, though even is more popular in those circles

[18:00] <pmichaud_> so, we're going to increase the huffmanization for the correct case to avoid the potential for an incorrect one?

[18:00] <ajs> It's VERY common. In fact, I know of at least two production applications that affect your wallet on a regular basis.

[18:00] <kudra> bye

[18:00] <ajs> later kudra

[18:01] <PerlJam> can't we always add a constraint on the sub so that (at compile time), there's an error if mutual exclusivity is violated?

[18:01] <pmichaud_> we don't always know at compile time

[18:02] <ajs> Yep, you can always call round([,] $capture)

[18:02] <ajs> A run-time check could catch that

[18:02] <pmichaud_> also, why only round to integers?

[18:03] <ajs> pmichaud_: We round to complex as well

[18:03] <ajs> for complex input

[18:03] <ajs> er, actually, Complex

[18:03] <PerlJam> ajs: But I want to round to the nearest tenth

[18:03] <pmichaud_> what about rounding to the nearest tenth, nearest half, etc.?

[18:03] <fglock> kolibrie: re mail - that looks like spam

[18:04] <pmichaud_> nearest three, nearest ten, nearest 100, etc.

[18:04] <kolibrie> fglock: thought so, just wanted to make sure your computer wasn't infected or anything

[18:04] <pmichaud_> fwiw, php uses "precision" for round:    $n = round :precision(0.5) $x

[18:04] <ajs> pmichaud_: so, you want: our Int multi Math::Basic::round ( Num $x, :$up, :$down, :$infinity, :$neginfinity, :$even, :$odd, :$random, :$precision, :$base)?

[18:06] <pmichaud_> maybe just precision:   $n = round :precision(RoundEven)

[18:06] <PerlJam> eh?

[18:06] <ajs> That's not a precision.

[18:06] <ajs> That's a direction for tie-breaking

[18:06] <pmichaud_> ohhhhh

[18:06] <pmichaud_> I get it

[18:07] <PerlJam> ajs: round :tie(RoundUp) :precision(0.001)

[18:07] <pmichaud_> personally, I like    $n = round $x :up     to   $n = round $x :dir(RoundUp)

[18:07] <pmichaud_> but I don't have a strong opinion on it

[18:07] <ajs> Why is :tie preferable to :dir? More to the point, what are we solving for, here?

[18:07] <PerlJam> ajs: dir still doesn't make any sense.

[18:07] <PerlJam> ( to me)

[18:08] <PerlJam> why not "direction"?

[18:08] <ajs> Simply length. I try not to have named parameters which exceed the length of the function name.

[18:08] *** chris2 joined
[18:09] * pmichaud_ notes, fwiw, that unix command-line options have no difficulty with mutual-exclusivity

[18:09] <PerlJam> ajs: do you do any C programming under unix?  Have you ever used creat(2)?

[18:09] <ajs> Quite a bit

[18:09] * pmichaud_ bows out for a while

[18:10] <PerlJam> I think dir is the same kind of mistake as creat

[18:12] <ajs> creat is a mistake because it sacrifices readability for one character. "dir" is a commonly used abbreviation (esp. in programming) for "direction", and more than halves the length of the token. I don't think this is a reasonable comparison.

[18:12] <ajs> If there were any possible confusion with "directory", then I'd say it was a bad choice

[18:13] * kolibrie prefers verbosity over ambiguity, unless it is something used so often that it is no longer ambiguous

[18:13] <ajs> But the problem is that "tie" isn't what we're doing here. We're selecting a direction in the case of a tie... I'm not sure that works adverbially...

[18:14] <ajs> kolibrie: And you don't think rounding direction is used very often? Read: http://www.pldesignline.com/howto/showArticle.jhtml;?articleID=175801189

[18:14] *** GeJ joined
[18:15] <kolibrie> ajs: I think it should have a nice default so I don't often have to specify my direction

[18:16] <PerlJam> ajs: you'll note in that article that they mention "round-floor" and "round-ceiling"  :-)

[18:16] <PerlJam> kolibrie: what's a nice default?

[18:16] <ajs> Well, it does have a nice default, and I don't expect most people to specify it, but those who need it, use it A LOT.

[18:17] <ajs> PerlJam: That's not the section I was refering to. Perl does and always has made a distinction betwen "rounding" and "flooring" as different operations.

[18:17] <ajs> But if the concern is that signatures are too short, and should allow for all possible combinatorics of uses of the abstract sematic represented by the function, then S29 is going to beat out War and Peace

[18:18] <ajs> (and I'll not be doing all of it)

[18:18] <PerlJam> Sure, but are the names given there representative of the names used in common parlance?  If so, shouldn't we adopt them?

[18:18] <kolibrie> PerlJam: I don't round enough to know, that's why I'll use the default

[18:18] <ajs> PerlJam: We have adopted them. That's why there's a floor and ceiling function. These are well used names.

[18:19] <PerlJam> So this is a case where you think TIMTOWTDI shouldn't apply?

[18:19] <ajs> But "round" presents an ambiguity, and to resolve that ambiguity, you have to pick a direction to go in case of tie.

[18:20] <kolibrie> we could use unicode arrows :)

[18:20] <ajs> WHAT ... ARE ... WE ... SOLVING ... FOR?!

[18:20] * bpphillips notices the bikeshed, starts thinking about what color it REALLY should be ;-)

[18:21] <kolibrie> I was just saying that for people who round very infrequently, it would be nice to have adverbs that are verbose enough for me to understand them

[18:21] <PerlJam> ajs: 1) dir is a poor name (at least IMHO).  We need a better one.  And 2) I'm lobbying for RoundFloor/RoundCeiling because I think that there's some largish subset of the population who think of floor and ceiling as rounding operations and would naturally look for them there.

[18:22] <PerlJam> (Certianly not in POSIX without some help)

[18:23] <kolibrie> the regex adverbs have one-letter and verbose forms

[18:23] <theorbtwo> PerlJam: That's what documentation is for, not making the name longer.

[18:23] <kolibrie> could have :d and :direction

[18:23] <cjeris> $n = round $x :toward(Even) ?

[18:24] <bpphillips> cjeris++

[18:24] <theorbtwo> I don't think we need to put every concieveable variation of rounding in the core.

[18:24] <PerlJam> theorbtwo: I can accept that. I think.

[18:24] <theorbtwo> ceil(), floor(), and a round() with unspecified tiebraking are plenty.

[18:24] <ajs> Decide amongst yourselves. I'll move on to something else for now. I don't have time to have a 20 minute conversation about every function. There are just too many. If you want a run-on signature, though, you'll have to tackle the formattign question. Right now S29 dodges that by having, in general, short signatures.

[18:25] <PerlJam> kolibrie++, and I can accept that too.  (In fact, earlier when we were talking about precision, I was going to suggest :p rather than :precision, but why not both? )

[18:25] <PerlJam> ajs: sorry to distract.  keep up the good work!  ajs++  :-)

[18:26] <kolibrie> yes, ajs++

[18:31] <ajs> Thanks guys. Sorry to be cranky, it's just that this work is SO slow... I have to slog through the synopses multiple times for every single function, as they always end up bringing up their own odd questions.

[18:31] <elmex> elmex++

[18:31] <perlbot> What kind of idiot karmas himself?  Your kind of idiot!

[18:32] <ajs> And, then there's the 3 years of mailing list archives...

[18:32] <ajs> perlbot--

[18:32] <PerlJam> ajs: sounds like you need to delegate.  Now that S29 is broken up into pieces, recruit volunteers for each piece

[18:32] <PerlJam> ajs: though you'll have to be responsible for quality control

[18:33] <PerlJam> (since you're the function pumpking :-)

[18:33] * tewk hears PerlJam volunteering :)

[18:34] <ajs> Well, that will happen. I need the framework first. Ultimately at least half of the API documentation needs to wait until AFTER the first implementation of the modules that it documents. It will be iterative, and I hope the poeple who implement will be willing to document what they do

[18:34] <PerlJam> tewk: indeed. If I remembered how S29 was divided, I'd grab a piece that looked interesting enough to keep me working on it.

[18:35] <PerlJam> ajs: oh!  Then what needs implementing still?  Maybe make RT tickets for each function/module so that people can be encouraged to get to work :)

[18:35] <ajs> PerlJam: Every module that S29 documents (e.g. Math::Basic, Scalar, OS, etc) will have a corresponding API doc.

[18:35] <ajs> And a corresponding module that people can actually "use"

[18:36] * PerlJam needs to get a parrot commit bit or something ... I keep getting more and more interested in it as perl6 gets nearer

[18:36] <ajs> If you want to start writing modules, based on Functions.pod, feel free. Those who write code, typically get commit bits around the first time they say, "I have code, who wants to commit it?" ;-)

[18:39] <tewk> PerlJam: do you have a pugs commit bit?

[18:40] <PerlJam> tewk: I do.

[18:40] <PerlJam> (who doesn't?  ;-)

[18:40] <stevan> matz

[18:40] <ajs> Oh, I was misunderstanding your statement...

[18:40] <stevan> guido never picked his up

[18:40] <tewk> My thoughts exactly after asking, stupid question.

[18:40] <ajs> stevan: heh

[18:40] <tewk> but I'm sure it's waiting for him.

[18:41] <stevan> tewk: yes :)

[18:41] <stevan> maybe this OSCON audrey can get them to sign up

[18:41] <tewk> matz seems like the type who would definitely sign up.

[18:41] <tewk> is matz going to be at OSCON?

[18:51] *** evalbot_11535 joined
[18:51] <audreyt> Win32 build repaired.

[18:52] <kolibrie> audreyt++

[18:52] <fglock> svnbot is down

[18:52] <audreyt> bringing it up now

[18:53] <cjeris> audreyt++

[18:53] <cjeris> ntfs-- : svn: Can't open file 'docs\Perl6\API\.svn\tmp\text-base\Math::Basic.pod.svn-base': The parameter is incorrect.

[19:04] <ajs> Doh

[19:04] <ajs> What should I call that

[19:04] <ajs> Math-Basic.pod? Or do we tell NTFS to go touch itself? ;)

[19:05] <audreyt> Math/Basic.pod

[19:05] <audreyt> I think

[19:05] <audreyt> makes CPAN's life easier

[19:05] <ajs> Really? Ok. I thought subdirs would be annoying.

[19:05] <ajs> Will do

[19:05] <xerox> How does one see the list of people's karma? :D

[19:06] <fglock> audreyt: svnbot still doesn't work

[19:06] *** svnbot6 joined
[19:06] <audreyt> fglock: need a ?join

[19:06] <fglock> thanks!

[19:06] <svnbot6> r11540 | ajs++ | Moved Math::Basic so that systems that cannot do :: in filenames will cope

[19:07] <ajs> done

[19:10] <ajs> Ok, that's it for me until Sunday or Monday. Have a great weekend, y'all

[19:10] <kolibrie> ajs: happy weekend

[19:16] <audreyt> have fun :)

[19:25] <svnbot6> r11541 | fglock++ | v6 - TODO update

[19:31] <svnbot6> r11542 | audreyt++ | * take away another "ar" call on Win32 to reduce confusing error msg.

[19:36] <audreyt> bbiab...

[20:01] <kolibrie> audreyt: I got yapc_schedule.pl to work on the real schedule (http://yapcchicago.org/the-schedule/monday) if I removed the '—' (\x{2014}) characters, which were not matching .

[20:01] <lambdabot> Title: YAPC::NA 2006 » Monday

[20:01] <nothingmuch> SO!

[20:01] <nothingmuch> guess what

[20:02] <nothingmuch> did my flight checkin go smoothly?

[20:02] <kolibrie> hey nothingmuch

[20:02] <nothingmuch> of course not!

[20:02] * nothingmuch wants to sleep

[20:02] <nothingmuch> so much

[20:02] <kolibrie> are you stranded?

[20:02] <gaal> nothingmuch: what happened?

[20:03] <nothingmuch> my train was like 20 mins late

[20:03] <nothingmuch> but that was OK

[20:03] <nothingmuch> it was still enough time to actuallly make it

[20:04] <nothingmuch> only the eticket machines kept crashing with my info

[20:04] <gaal> eek

[20:04] <nothingmuch> i finally found someone who listened

[20:04] <nothingmuch> so she tried it

[20:04] <nothingmuch> and it turns ouit checkins to israel are restricted

[20:04] <nothingmuch> and i need to go to some other place

[20:04] <nothingmuch> from that place i got sent to yet another place

[20:04] <nothingmuch> where I discovered that somehow my booking was canceled

[20:04] <gaal> !!!

[20:04] <nothingmuch> (this is about 30 minutes before departure)

[20:04] <gaal> oh

[20:05] <nothingmuch> (i was running around the airport for over an hour by then)

[20:05] <gaal> hmmmm what now then?

[20:05] <nothingmuch> so they put me on a different flight

[20:05] <nothingmuch> departing at 22:00

[20:05] <kolibrie> ugh

[20:05] <nothingmuch> so that was fixed, kinda

[20:05] <gaal> what time is it now? 16:05

[20:05] <kolibrie> yes

[20:05] <gaal> where are you?

[20:05] <nothingmuch> and to compensate me, i discovered that I "was selected by Continental airlines"

[20:05] <gaal> you were selected for what?

[20:06] <nothingmuch> what this means is that some guy with gloves gave me a full body massage

[20:06] <gaal> heh

[20:06] <nothingmuch> if i'm really lucky they will tell me that i'm on standby

[20:06] <gaal> an upgrade to business on a transatlantic flight might be a nicer selection...

[20:06] <kolibrie> nothingmuch: you at JFK?

[20:07] <gaal> are you waiting in the airport?

[20:07] <nothingmuch> kolibrie: EWR

[20:07] <nothingmuch> i'm now on the gate next to mine

[20:07] <nothingmuch> (Israel's gate is blocked off)

[20:07] <gaal> I wonder if you can check yout luggage somewhere and hop off to manhattan

[20:07] <gaal> newark is alittle clumsy to reach manhattan by with cheap routes

[20:08] <nothingmuch> gaal: i'm already checked in

[20:08] <nothingmuch> i don't want any more mess

[20:08] <gaal> you need to take the bus to Newark the city, then a PATH to exchange place, switch to the other line and bam, you're in 33rd St

[20:08] <gaal> under five bucks

[20:08] <gaal> but that's a few switches and potential confusion.

[20:09] * obra will be in nyc tomorrow

[20:09] <kolibrie> and how many hours?

[20:09] <gaal> kolibrie: not very long, under 1.5 hr

[20:09] <nothingmuch> gaal: that's ~1.5 hrs in and ~1.5 hrs out

[20:09] <gaal> yes

[20:09] <nothingmuch> while I can have fun it's going to be risky

[20:09] <nothingmuch> this doesn't include recheckin time

[20:09] <nothingmuch> and leaving the gate

[20:09] <gaal> or take a taxi, about fifty bucks evrey way :(

[20:09] <nothingmuch> naaaaaaaah

[20:09] <gaal> well you do have six hours

[20:10] <obra> nothingmuch: you've got internet, right?

[20:10] <gaal> oh, less than that really

[20:10] <kolibrie> or helicopter, they have those too

[20:10] <gaal> well, look on the bright side :)

[20:10] <gaal> we get to moose :)

[20:10] <nothingmuch> obra: it appears so

[20:10] <nothingmuch> gaal: yes

[20:11] <gaal> where are you pulling internet from btw? I was wondering that at the gate

[20:11] <gaal> before my flight that is

[20:11] * gaal 's crummy ol' NIC doesn't have scan

[20:11] <nothingmuch> concourse

[20:12] <gaal> let me guess you're at 99?

[20:12] <gaal> 98 maybe

[20:12] <stevan> nothingmuch!!

[20:12] <gaal> stevan: moose

[20:12] <nothingmuch> hoi esteban

[20:12] <nothingmuch> gaal: 96 right now

[20:12] <nothingmuch> or 94

[20:12] <gaal> so, let's antler a bit!

[20:12] <nothingmuch> but it's a few meters from 98

[20:13] <nothingmuch> gaal: give me 15 mins to finish some Class::MOP silliness

[20:13] <gaal> my first question is about the method tables

[20:13] <gaal> sure

[20:13] <stevan> gaal: moose

[20:14] <gaal> hey, maybe we can gobby this?

[20:14] <nothingmuch> they are not tables ;-)

[20:14] * gaal doesn't have SEEE

[20:14] <nothingmuch> they're iterators

[20:14] <gaal> huh? over what?

[20:14] * gaal looks at Class::MOP for reference

[20:16] <kolibrie> audreyt: do you know where \x{2014} not matching . in a grammar is caused, and how easy to fix?

[20:16] <nothingmuch> gaal: i was kidding

[20:16] <nothingmuch> i will explain soon

[20:17] <gaal> k

[20:18] <fglock> which perl5 module implements 'reduce'?

[20:18] <gaal> List::Util probably

[20:19] <gaal> brb

[20:22] <gaal> nothingmuch: foo says hi

[20:23] <gaal> well, in Class::MOP it's simply the Perl 5 symbol table. so I'm guessing a Map Ident Code simply?

[20:24] <nothingmuch> gaal: pet foo for me

[20:24] <nothingmuch> gaal++; # helping me out last year when my flights also went screwey

[20:24] <gaal> will do

[20:24] <nothingmuch> gaal: anonymous classes might do whatever

[20:24] <nothingmuch> it should ofcourse, be opaque

[20:24] <nothingmuch> but Map Ident Code is good enough

[20:24] <nothingmuch> if Code has the meta data

[20:24] <gaal> nothingmuch: oh! need me to call anyone or are you good on that front?

[20:25] <nothingmuch> (i don't know Code, i thought VCode...)

[20:25] <nothingmuch> what time is it in israel?

[20:25] <gaal> nothingmuch: the new Code data is pretty rich

[20:25] <nothingmuch> i mailed my 'rents

[20:25] <gaal> 23:25

[20:25] <nothingmuch> but crap

[20:25] <nothingmuch> they won't check email

[20:25] <nothingmuch> please wake them up

[20:25] <nothingmuch> 08-651-2264

[20:25] <gaal> I'd be happy to give them a call

[20:25] <nothingmuch> <3 gaal

[20:25] <gaal> what's your TLV ETA?

[20:26] <nothingmuch> checking

[20:27] <gaal> + flight no.

[20:27] <nothingmuch> 90

[20:27] <gaal> k, give me 5 min

[20:28] <gaal> (phone on emergency charge...)

[20:28] <nothingmuch> gaal: flight 90, arrives at 4:15 pm

[20:28] <nothingmuch> oh shit

[20:28] <svnbot6> r11543 | kolibrie++ | yapc_schedule.pl - updated to work with http://yapcchicago.org/the-schedule/monday

[20:28] <svnbot6> r11543 | kolibrie++ | * still fails to read past the \x{2014} characters,

[20:28] <svnbot6> r11543 | kolibrie++ |   so delete those from the html until that gets fixed

[20:29] <lambdabot> Title: YAPC::NA 2006 » Monday

[20:29] <nothingmuch> they have a scheduling issue

[20:29] <gaal> in the meanwhile, if you're bored, take a look at src/Pugs/AST/CapInternals.hs

[20:29] <nothingmuch> *GUGHHHHGGGGGGG*

[20:29] <nothingmuch> and no fucking trains

[20:29] * nothingmuch dies

[20:29] <gaal> nothingmuch: crash here

[20:29] <gaal> you'll have to pay 120nis for a cab to my place (sorry no car to pick you up with)

[20:29] <gaal> but you're welcome to stay here till you're unstranded

[20:30] <nothingmuch> <3 once more

[20:30] <nothingmuch> oh wait, when it's mozash?

[20:30] <fglock> gaal: reduce works :)

[20:31] <gaal> fglock: yay :)

[20:31] <svnbot6> r11544 | fglock++ | v6 -  say [*] 1..5

[20:31] <gaal> whee! fglock++

[20:31] <gaal> fglock: remember to also do [\*]

[20:32] <gaal> nothingmuch: tomorrow no trains Lod -> Beer Sheba due to maintenance.

[20:33] <fglock> gaal: submit a patch to List::Util? :)

[20:33] <nothingmuch> gaal: *sigh*

[20:34] <nothingmuch> gaal: tell them that you can host me if they can't pick me up

[20:34] <nothingmuch> they have some sort of engagement related to my sister

[20:34] <gaal> fglock: actually part of the point of scans (productions) is that they're lazy, so in perl 5 they're less efficient

[20:34] <nothingmuch> but i don't know what it is

[20:34] <nothingmuch> luckily i have cloths and stuff

[20:35] <pmichaud> kolibrie: (\x{2014} not matching)  that's a parrot implementation issue -- it doesn't deal well with unicode characters if ICU isn't loaded

[20:35] <gaal> nothingmuch: the train site is kinda confusing, could be only the Lod->bs service is closed but there's a train from tlv leaving 22:11

[20:35] <kolibrie> pmichaud: ICU is loaded (before I loaded it I was getting ICU not found errors)

[20:36] <clkao> fglock: pong

[20:36] <pmichaud> then it ought to match

[20:36] <kolibrie> hmm.  Any particular version of ICU I need?

[20:36] <nothingmuch> gaal: =/

[20:36] <nothingmuch> gaal: i have you as fallback

[20:36] <nothingmuch> so i will see what I can do

[20:36] <pmichaud> not that I'm aware of -- anything that causes parrot to build cleanly ought to be okay

[20:37] <kolibrie> pmichaud: ok

[20:37] <fglock> clkao: I fixed some syntax problems

[20:37] <clkao> cool

[20:37] <gaal> nothingmuch: your folks will pick you up tomorrow :)

[20:38] <gaal> just spoke with them

[20:38] <fglock> clkao: t/data_types/hash.t parses now (emits with errors)

[20:38] <pmichaud> kolibrie: you might run   prove t/compilers/pge/p6regex/metachars.t   in your parrot instance, it has some unicode checks in it

[20:38] <gaal> oh, even if there weren't a train you could have taken the bus, it's not too bad.

[20:38] <gaal> but.. they know the flight number etc.

[20:38] <pmichaud> I'm not sure how good the bridge is when dealing w/unicode.  I suspect it's okay,  but...

[20:39] <svnbot6> r11545 | fglock++ | v6 - updated ChangeLog

[20:39] <nothingmuch> gaal: thanks

[20:39] <gaal> nothingmuch: sure thing

[20:39] <nothingmuch> <3 gaal

[20:39] <nothingmuch> gaal++

[20:39] <kolibrie> pmichaud: t/compilers/pge/p6regex/metachars....ok

[20:40] <clkao> fglock: WHOOT

[20:40] <kolibrie> pmichaud: could be a bridge thing, maybe.

[20:40] <clkao> fglock: with hash working we can start rewrite the emitter in perl6

[20:40] <gaal> oh, I didn't know List::Util was XS

[20:42] <fglock> clkao: it's time to split the emitter in submodules - it is starting to get big

[20:42] <nothingmuch> clkao: you'll mail me again, right? becasue you marked the task as finished

[20:42] *** rodi joined
[20:42] <clkao> nothingmuch: yes, i created a task for my friend to report the postage

[20:43] <clkao> nothingmuch: once i got it i will and it to your total balance and request payment by paypal ;)

[20:44] <nothingmuch> =)

[20:46] <nothingmuch> gaal: join moose?

[20:47] <nothingmuch> audreyt: shit, i forgot to tell you that stevan couldn't visit boston

[20:47] <clkao> moose

[20:47] <fglock> clkao: the whole compiler can be written in v6 :)

[20:48] <clkao> yes, very soon ;)

[20:48] <gaal> nothingmuch: well

[20:48] <gaal> ?

[20:52] *** cmarcelo joined
[20:53] <nothingmuch> 6

[20:53] <svnbot6> r11546 | fglock++ | v6-alpha-0.009 in cpan

[20:55] <clkao> fglock: are you aiming to roll releases every two days?

[21:03] *** knewt joined
[21:03] <kolibrie> nothingmuch: stevan mentioned it here this morning

[21:05] <clkao> fglock: need [1..3]

[21:07] <fglock> clkao: say [1..3].perl works here

[21:07] <clkao> oh ok

[21:08] <clkao> 02-test-pm/1basic still fails to parse

[21:11] <nothingmuch> kolibrie: the not being able to go to boston? i saw audreyt asking about it in my away log but not the remainder of the conversation

[21:11] <kolibrie> nothingmuch: yes

[21:11] <kolibrie> I don't know how it concluded, either, but I think she was aware

[21:12] <nothingmuch> okay =)

[21:12] <fglock> clkao: re 1-basic.t - subs must be moved from 'statement' to 'term'

[21:12] <lumi> nothingmuch: Maybe I can pick you up?

[21:13] <nothingmuch> lumi: no, they are picking me up

[21:13] <lumi> Oh, k

[21:13] <nothingmuch> but thanks!

[21:13] <clkao> fglock: i though it is already. otherwise my $foo = sub {} wouldn't work?

[21:13] <clkao> anyway, off for a bit

[21:17] <fglock> clkao: 'my $foo = sub {}' works because the emitter is smart about it

[21:17] <svnbot6> r11547 | gaal++ | * Pugs.MOP: both Module and Class only Maybe have Package and Module, respectively

[21:18] <fglock> clkao: "Release Early, Release Often"

[21:20] <gaal> openfoundry is kinda slow tonight :(

[21:22] <cjeris> I'm trying to fix Pugs.Prim.List to distribute hyperops over nested arrays, but I think what I just coded is wrong.

[21:22] <pasteling0> "cjeris" at 140.247.124.140 pasted "trying to add hyperop distribution" (22 lines, 533B) at http://sial.org/pbot/18402

[21:22] <svnbot6> r11548 | fglock++ | v6 - removed empty file 'moose-1.pl'

[21:22] <cjeris> It needs to return a reference in the second slot, so it looks like (1, [2, 3]), right?

[21:42] *** DaGo joined
[21:53] *** kanru2 joined
[22:02] *** cjeris left
[22:02] *** thepler joined
[22:07] *** kanru joined
[22:09] *** froh-doh joined
[22:16] <svnbot6> r11549 | cmarcelo++ | * ByteString support for Map and MapSL.

[22:16] <svnbot6> r11549 | cmarcelo++ | * Naive HsJudy-based entry for K-Nucleotide Shootout Entry.

[22:16] <svnbot6> r11549 | cmarcelo++ | Three times better than GHC #1 entry. Couldn't check times for

[22:16] <svnbot6> r11549 | cmarcelo++ | GHC #2 and GHC #3. But worst than Ketil's entry in Hawiki

[22:16] <svnbot6> r11549 | cmarcelo++ | (Haskell old wiki).

[22:17] * nothingmuch pulls an audreyt

[22:19] *** Jedai joined
[22:25] *** rindolf joined
[22:25] <rindolf> Hi all.

[22:26] <xerox> cmarcelo: How's your SoC doing? :D

[22:32] <audreyt> apparently pretty well :)

[22:33] <audreyt> <3 the ByteString support

[22:34] <rindolf> Is the Google SoC open for people who already graduated from university?

[22:35] <obra>  hey audreyt

[22:35] <rindolf> Hi auder

[22:35] <rindolf> Hi audreyt

[22:35] <audreyt> obra: hey

[22:35] <rindolf> audreyt: have you given a talk in Boston?

[22:35] <audreyt> yes.

[22:35] <rindolf> Or Cambridge, MA?

[22:36] <rindolf> audreyt: yes, there's a discussion about it in the Boston.pm mailing list.

[22:36] <audreyt> I don't know where I've gave the talk

[22:36] <rindolf> Whose archive is only for subscribers... <sigh />.

[22:36] <rindolf> audreyt: Oh.

[22:36] <audreyt> MIT campus, I think.

[22:36] <rindolf> audreyt: you didn't drive?

[22:36] <audreyt> not sure

[22:36] <audreyt> no, obra drove me there

[22:36] <rindolf> audreyt: OK.

[22:36] * audreyt pays very little attention to Reality in general

[22:37] <obra> MIT Campus. E51

[22:39] <rindolf> obra: does MIT has other buildings spread in Cambridge?

[22:39] <rindolf> obra: also, does Harvard teach Engineering?

[22:40] <rindolf> A distant relative (from marriage) is from Brookline, MA originally. He started studying in Harvard. First Law, then Philosophy. He quit with one semester left.

[22:40] <rindolf> Or so I heard.

[22:41] <rindolf> He also sold his startup to an Internet sports news company.

[22:43] <rindolf> http://www.couchsurfing.com/founders-dan.html

[22:43] <lambdabot> Title: CouchSurfing - Daniel M. Hoffer

[22:44] <rindolf> Seems like he moved to Silicon Valley.

[22:46] <rindolf> No, wait - http://www.couchsurfing.com/profile.html?id=15AU he's still in Boston.

[22:46] <lambdabot> Title: CouchSurfing - HOFFER

[22:46] *** fglock left
[22:47] *** rashakil joined
[22:48] *** putter joined
[22:52] *** DaGo joined
[22:56] *** putter left
[23:08] <nothingmuch> couchsurfing is back?

[23:12] <wolverian> yes

[23:12] <wolverian> couchsurfing++ # great for summer festivals

[23:43] <vsoni> seen audreyt

[23:43] <jabbot> vsoni: audreyt was seen 1 hours 7 minutes 15 seconds ago

[23:46] <audreyt> vsoni: yes?

[23:46] <vsoni> audreyt do we use .pcc_sub directive in PIR

[23:46] <vsoni> aureyt: for subs

[23:46] *** diotalevi joined
[23:46] <audreyt> no.

[23:46] <audreyt> it's all .sub now

[23:47] <audreyt> .pcc_sub + label

[23:47] <audreyt> is pasm only iirc.

[23:47] <vsoni> so .pcc_sub is deprecated

[23:47] <audreyt> well, only in PIR

[23:47] <vsoni> ok.

[23:48] <vsoni> thanks audreyt

[23:48] <clkao> zz

[23:50] <audreyt> vsoni: np :)

