[00:00] <audreyt> TimToady: so the sequence is actually

[00:00] <audreyt> BUILDALL -> BUILD/CREATE -> BUILD/CREATE -> BUILD/CREATE

[00:00] <audreyt> to agree with what we've said above

[00:01] <audreyt> otoh, maybe CREATE can have knowledge of all attributes of derived classes, and "mask" the irrelevant parts

[00:02] <audreyt> so it's  CREATE -> BUILDALL -> BUILD (part of the layout invisible) -> BUILD -> ...

[00:02] <audreyt> that however means all intermediate classes can share one single layout

[00:02] <audreyt> which is probably not the case for cross language classes.

[00:02] <TimToady> the layouts have to negotiate that...

[00:02] <TimToady> generally by not negotiating it...

[00:03] <audreyt> hmm?

[00:03] <TimToady> to the first approximation, shared repr is only possible within a given layout

[00:03] <TimToady> different reprs are assumed to delegate instead

[00:03] *** lambdabot joined
[00:04] <TimToady> meeting, so I'll be a bit distracted...

[00:04] <audreyt> but then itneeds to fire CREATE multiple times

[00:04] <audreyt> i.e. the first BUILD/CREATE strategy above

[00:04] <audreyt> otherwise deleegation can't be setup

[00:05] <TimToady> presuming that outermost CREATE knows everything that needs to be done.

[00:05] <audreyt> actually each stage of CREATE is a simple layout-compat test

[00:05] <audreyt> if compt, merge

[00:06] <audreyt> if not, setup delegation

[00:06] <audreyt> either way, go to next BUILD

[00:06] <audreyt> and so on

[00:08] <audreyt> otoh, if outermost CREATE knows everything, then it can just create one single candidate that has the neccessary heterogenous layout

[00:08] <audreyt> CREATE (CREATE+CREATE+CREATE) -> BUILDALL -> BUILD (part of layout invisible) -> BUILD -> BUILD ...

[00:08] <audreyt> I guess I like it more.

[00:08] * audreyt codes it up

[00:10] <audreyt> another thought is to not have this very special recursion

[00:10] <audreyt> and instead have simply a CREATEALL.

[00:10] <audreyt> CREATEALL (CREATE+CREATE+CREATE) -> ...

[00:10] <audreyt> so each CREATE only cares about the private atts

[00:10] <audreyt> and CREATEALL cares about superclasses's layouts

[00:10] <audreyt> that seems to make a lot more sense.

[00:13] <TimToady> but in that case BUILDALL can probably do it.  CREATE is just a preBUILDALL hook.

[00:14] <audreyt> hm, but that means user-defined BUILDALL has to do a lot.

[00:15] <audreyt> instead of only reordering the calls

[00:24] *** weinig joined
[00:33] <audreyt> cmarcelo: ivResponderInterface = class_interface base :: MethodTable Maybe is bogus

[00:33] <audreyt> I'll take away the ::. :)

[00:35] *** Aankhen`` joined
[00:36] <cmarcelo> audreyt: ok. it is bogus indeed, but at some point the compiler (or my interpretation of it) was claiming this so I did it :o)

[00:36] <audreyt> the compiler is claiming it because you didn't do the AnyResponder abstraction :)

[00:36] <audreyt> tsktsk :)

[00:36] <audreyt> (you should've seen the same claim for AnyClass also)

[00:37] <audreyt> the idea is that the object has a AnyResponder

[00:37] <audreyt> so it only existentially quantify the payload

[00:37] <audreyt> the responder interface has nothing to do with the type of payload (ivInvocant)

[00:37] <audreyt> so it cna be encapsulated safely

[00:37] <audreyt> and that makes the explicit ::MethodTable go away

[00:40] <cmarcelo> I see.. well I was lazy, when this classes appeared I was hoping to have a better solution than AnyMoose, so patched up this ::MT's..

[00:40] <audreyt> *nod* though AnyMoose is clearly the way to go now :)

[00:44] <cmarcelo> rolling back to the layout discussion, when bless({x=>1}), the "layout" used will be Hash instead of P6opaque { ... }, and when using a Ruby object there'll be an ForeignObject { .. }, or these are different beasts?

[00:44] <audreyt> that is correct

[00:45] <audreyt> and the key conclusion of the discussion above is that you can inherit from a ruby object

[00:45] <audreyt> and your CREATEALL (or, TimToady thinks BUILDALL last I checked) knows about it

[00:45] <audreyt> so it delegates to the ruby bridge's CREAGE

[00:45] <audreyt> CREATE

[00:45] <audreyt> which creates a delegation

[00:46] <TimToady> CREATE either has to allocate the slots or at least a handler slot for delegation

[00:46] <audreyt> TimToady: but I think we need something to allocate private-slots only

[00:46] <TimToady> I'd just like to avoid crawling the inheritance tree many times.

[00:46] <audreyt> which is relevant if the class want  One Specific Layout

[00:47] <audreyt> but BUILD is usually undefined

[00:47] <audreyt> and CREATE don't need to be fired if layouts are known to be compatible

[00:47] <audreyt> i.e. if it's known in CREATEALL that things can be shared, it only calls one CREATE

[00:47] *** hikozaemon joined
[00:47] <audreyt> (which is another reason for the CREATEALL abstraction outside BUILDALL...)

[00:48] <audreyt> but I'm not 100% sure yet myself. I think I'll just code it up and see how it smells like :)

[00:48] <TimToady> I think CREATEALL is called "bless"

[00:49] <audreyt> ...point.

[00:49] <TimToady> maybe CREATE nullifies all the classes it creates, and then bless looks to see what's left

[00:49] <audreyt> can we rename it to BLESS? :)

[00:50] <TimToady> looks too much like BLAST!

[00:50] <audreyt> (considering it's almost always autotriggered)

[00:50] <audreyt> never mind... "bless" is fine

[00:50] <audreyt> I jsut effectively murdered "new", we need at least one lowercase entry point :)

[00:50] *** rodi joined
[00:51] *** weinig is now known as weinig|food

[00:52] <TimToady> and people may use new-less bless in P6 much like they do in P5.

[00:52] <TimToady> at least for hashes

[00:52] *** weinig|food is now known as weinig

[00:53] <audreyt> I wonder if blessing arrays automagically works...

[00:53] <audreyt> (ordering of attr is known.)

[00:53] <TimToady> If you wonder, then it probably doesn't.  :)

[00:53] <audreyt> or if it's too tricky to be allowed this way

[00:53] * audreyt forsees painful bounds checking

[00:53] <audreyt> never mind then :)

[00:54] *** weinig is now known as weinig|food

[00:56] <cmarcelo> audreyt: (/me reverse backlogging) using mono as runtime means some kind of PIL -> mono_byte_code?

[00:57] <audreyt> cmarcelo: yes, but more importantly a runtime on mono that implements the MOP bridges

[00:57] <audreyt> i.e. all our builtin objects (Scalar, Array, Class) must be encoded as native CLR objects

[00:57] <audreyt> emeijer has suggested an encoding that works for Class

[00:57] <audreyt> which was the hardest part

[00:57] <audreyt> but the other ones need to be modeled as well

[00:57] <audreyt> PIL itself is trivial.

[00:59] *** aufrank joined
[01:00] *** duend_ joined
[01:02] *** mbradley is now known as mbradley|afk

[01:02] <cmarcelo> audreyt: (Test.pm.yml is PIL serialized into yaml, right?).. I see.. but if they don't support something in CLR, e.g. MI, how's that possible? or the abstraction is lower?

[01:03] <audreyt> the abstraction is lower.

[01:03] <audreyt> the encoding is essentially to let metaclass control dispatch

[01:03] <audreyt> not let VM handle it

[01:04] <audreyt> if it's deemed to be incompatible with CLR's SI

[01:04] <audreyt> we do it with a ProxyObjectDelegate

[01:04] <audreyt> originally used for remoting

[01:04] <audreyt> but can be used in-process as well

[01:04] <audreyt> it lets an object control the complete dispatch for another object

[01:04] <audreyt> which corresponds to AnyResponder

[01:04] <audreyt> i.e. if we

[01:04] <audreyt> instance ResponderInterface m (Invocant m)

[01:05] <audreyt> then we also have that capability.

[01:05] <audreyt> (am I making sense to you?)

[01:07] <cmarcelo> actually, I got the workaround (let object control dispatch), but not the first option (letting meta control dispatch).. you mean their (CLR?) metaclass structure deal with our dispatch, if not possible, fallback to workaround..?

[01:08] <audreyt> metaclass is just an object. :)

[01:09] <audreyt> p6-metaclass controls the dispatch if needed

[01:09] <audreyt> use native dispatch if possible

[01:09] <TimToady> it's unlikely that their dispatcher will respond to "next METHOD"

[01:09] <audreyt> correct, though if we are compiled closed/static

[01:09] <audreyt> then we can know places where next METHOD will always not make sense.

[01:10] *** lyokato joined
[01:10] <TimToady> or if we use "hides" inheritance

[01:10] <audreyt> in which case those classes can effectly become Mono structs

[01:10] <audreyt> fortunately it seems the obj-control-dispatch, as long as that obj itself does not get proxied again, is very fast.

[01:11] <audreyt> that amounts to not let people augment ::Class at runtime.

[01:11] <audreyt> I'm willing to live with that when targetting mono :)

[01:11] <TimToady> certainly these things should be negotiable

[01:12] <audreyt> at some point something's gotta be nonaugmentable...

[01:12] <TimToady> nonnegotiable is one of the things that's negotiable.  :)

[01:12] <audreyt> :D

[01:12] *** eggzeck joined
[01:12] <TimToady> use Perl#;

[01:13] <eggzeck> Perl#?

[01:13] <audreyt> TimToady: how is "submethod BUILD" different from "my method BUILD"?

[01:13] <audreyt> oh, because you can't do $obj!*BUILD.

[01:13] <audreyt> never mind, got it.

[01:14] <audreyt> it neeeds to be made visible publicly but get dispatched privately.

[01:14] <TimToady> nod

[01:14] <audreyt> if someone defines "method BUILD" then very curious results will ensue...

[01:15] <audreyt> namely derived chain calls it over and over again

[01:15] <TimToady> one would presumably write it to derive class-specific info from somewhere else.

[01:15] <TimToady> so it does different things when called on behalf of different classes

[01:16] <TimToady> if there's a default Object::BUILD it works like that.

[01:16] <TimToady> but probably autogenning BUILD for each class is more efficient

[01:17] <TimToady> we could, however, make "method BUILD" barf by default.

[01:18] <TimToady> lexical compiler warning, maybe

[01:19] <audreyt> or metaclass object creation time warning.

[01:19] <TimToady> mabye $.x vs $!x in submethod is a similar warning.

[01:19] <audreyt> aka composition time

[01:19] <TimToady> no warn "IKnowWhatIAmDoingDarnIt!";

[01:19] <audreyt> seems to make more sense for a special-name-avoidance thing

[01:20] <audreyt> *nod*

[01:23] *** justatheory joined
[01:23] <audreyt> cmarcelo: perl6 classes has this curious property: there's no separate classMethods and instanceMethods slots.

[01:24] <audreyt> so I'm merging them...

[01:27] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[01:28] <audreyt> ditto roles.

[01:28] *** Reinfield joined
[01:28] *** Reinfield left
[01:28] <cmarcelo> fine. but how are calls to accessors in classes are dealt?

[01:29] <cmarcelo> re roles: how so?

[01:29] <audreyt> calls to accessors always read from layout

[01:29] <audreyt> it happens that the class prototype has a layout that fails on any access.

[01:30] <audreyt> Point.x # fails

[01:30] <audreyt> but that is only beause ::Point is allocated a NoLayout layout.

[01:32] <cmarcelo> ok. and (obviously) merge them in roles too you mean...

[01:32] <audreyt> yes but not bothering to do that tonight...

[01:32] <audreyt> need to finish CREATE fist

[01:32] <audreyt> first

[01:32] <audreyt> but maybe I just checkin :)

[01:33] <audreyt> adding http://perlcabal.org/~audreyt/tmp/for-cmarcelo-3  to Pugs.

[01:33] <lambdabot> http://tinyurl.com/y2sndd

[01:35] <cmarcelo> cool

[01:39] <audreyt> it's in.

[01:40] <audreyt> will give 6.4-compatbility a tiny try tomorrow

[01:40] <audreyt> or you can do it

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ | * Initial check in of the Haskell implementation of MO system.

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |     Design: nothingmuch++

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |             (with help from stevan++ and #moose)

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |     Implementation: cmarcelo++

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |                     (with help from audrey++ and #perl6)

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   It's reasonably complete now, with attributes, accessors,

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   multiple inheritance, C3, full introspection, role composition

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   and conflict detection, autoboxing of native Haskell objects,

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   as well as the ability with all three of our Eval-monad runlevels

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   (Pure, STM, IO).

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   Too late tonight to hook it up with Pugs.AST and Pugs.Val now,

[01:40] <audreyt> namely making existential records into positional

[01:40] <svnbot6> r14664 | audreyt++ |   but stay tuned...

[01:40] <audreyt> but if that alone doesn't do it, then we give up on 6.4 and mandate GHC 6.6.

[01:41] <audreyt> cmarcelo++ nothingmuch++ # for making 6.28 possible

[01:41] <audreyt> Pugs 6.28, that is :)

[01:42] <cmarcelo> audreyt: ok, I could try that tomorrow night..

[01:44] *** Aankhen`` joined
[01:44] <audreyt> cool. and I really shouuld blog about all those things (MP6, full bootstrap plan, native rules engine, native MO system...)

[01:45] <audreyt> but sleep first.

[01:45] <audreyt> see you tomorrow :) *wave*

[01:45] <cmarcelo> yes blog! because "anarchy only works w/ communication" :)

[01:45] <cmarcelo> s/s b/s, b/

[01:45] <audreyt> or maybe _you_ write about it :)

[01:46] <audreyt> you did 90% of the work anyway...

[01:46] <audreyt> you have a blog bit, too :)

[01:46] <cmarcelo> (you know more about how it integrates with the whole) :P

[01:47] <audreyt> but you claimed you grokked the plan... :)

[01:47] <audreyt> in any case, would be nice if you can writeup something, but don't feel too pressured.

[01:47] <audreyt> I seriously need to sleep :) till tomorrow... *wave*

[01:48] <cmarcelo> hehe I'll think about it... well, I have to go sleep too.. bye! &

[01:48] *** cmarcelo left
[01:48] <audreyt> nothingmuch: you have a blog bit too :)

[01:49] <audreyt> &

[01:51] *** avarab joined
[02:00] *** weinig|food is now known as weinig

[02:00] *** Southen joined
[02:09] *** Pomin joined
[02:17] *** brent[] joined
[02:29] <eviltwin_b> hm.  well, I definitely know where the filetest parse issue is coming from.  but I have no idea what to do about it given the kluge contained therein

[02:32] <eviltwin_b> short version:  "-" gets parsed before the filetest ops do, with @symbol@ so it consumes trailing @whiteSpace@.  then there's a hack to check if it's actually a filetest op, due to something about precedence (which *may* in fact be an attempt to hack around "-" being seen before the filetest ops, but I'm not certain)

[02:33] <eviltwin_b> if it is, I can fix it easily enough, I think.  but the comment on the filetest-op check mystifies me

[02:38] *** awwaiid joined
[02:47] *** weinig is now known as weinig|bbl

[03:11] *** mdiep joined
[03:23] * eviltwin_b is trying the hack, with the previous kluge disabled, to see if it breaks parsing --- hopefuly there are tests in the tree for whatever triggered the old kluge

[03:35] *** nipotaway is now known as nipotan

[03:52] *** mako132_ joined
[03:55] *** duend joined
[03:56] <eviltwin_b> testing...

[03:56] *** Lorn joined
[03:59] <eviltwin_b> d'oh, forgot trailing whitespace.  try, try again

[04:41] *** mako132_ joined
[04:58] *** nicodaemos joined
[05:01] <eviltwin_b> hm, that was a pretty braindead thinko.  but I think I might have it now.

[05:09] *** Eidolos joined
[05:10] *** duend joined
[05:17] *** duend is now known as duend`sleeping

[05:25] *** SubStack joined
[05:29] *** lisppaste3 joined
[05:55] *** beppu__ joined
[05:58] *** baest joined
[05:59] *** baest_ joined
[06:14] *** baest joined
[06:15] *** BooK joined
[06:18] *** GabrielVieira joined
[06:20] *** bennymack joined
[06:53] *** marmic joined
[06:59] *** drrho joined
[07:06] <svnbot6> r14665 | jesse++ | * "Differences from Perl6" didn't make sense in context. Relabeled the

[07:06] <svnbot6> r14665 | jesse++ |   doc section to "Differences from Perl 5"

[07:08] *** drrho joined
[07:39] *** iblechbot joined
[07:53] *** Alias__ joined
[07:54] *** Alias__ joined
[08:09] *** nusgnaf joined
[08:11] *** justatheory joined
[08:23] *** elmex joined
[08:27] *** nusgnaf left
[09:05] *** polettix joined
[09:07] *** kanru joined
[09:33] *** buetow joined
[09:38] *** ruoso joined
[09:43] *** andara joined
[09:47] *** eggzeck joined
[09:58] *** penk joined
[10:08] *** zptao joined
[10:21] *** kensanata joined
[10:32] *** orafu joined
[10:44] *** jabbot joined
[10:46] <svnbot6> r14666 | kudra++ | Summary from last week; commit failed on Sunday

[10:49] <svnbot6> r14667 | kudra++ | Placeholder

[10:54] *** ruoso joined
[10:56] *** todd- joined
[11:00] *** Psyche^ joined
[11:03] *** dmq joined
[11:05] *** lumi_ joined
[11:08] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[11:19] *** xinming_ joined
[12:00] *** elmex joined
[12:02] *** lumi_ is now known as lumi

[12:04] *** fglock joined
[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | * MP6

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | - implemented MP6::G::Regex::rule()

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | - /<%hash>/

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | - /const|const/

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | - /<subrule>/

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | - /<'xyz'>/

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | - /\n/

[12:04] <svnbot6> r14668 | fglock++ | * v6 - added more runtime methods

[12:07] <fglock> the Token -> MP6 compiler mostly works now

[12:14] *** chris2 joined
[12:22] *** beBOOm is now known as boo_

[12:24] *** Psyche^ joined
[12:26] <fglock> MP6 now needs a Runtime

[12:31] <fglock> it needs Match, infix:<+>, substr, m:P5//, <ws>, <alpha>, <digit> - I guess that's all

[12:32] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[12:34] <dmq> neat

[12:35] <gaal> nothingmuch: ping

[12:40] *** mako132_ joined
[12:43] <xinming_> fglock: Do you mean MP6 is almost finished? >_<

[12:43] *** xinming_ is now known as xinming

[12:53] *** Limbic_Region joined
[12:55] <Limbic_Region> http://use.perl.org/~acme/journal/31531

[12:55] <lambdabot> Title: Journal of acme (189)

[12:55] <Limbic_Region> "Of course, you really want to see the opcodes - hey, it's real bytecode. Now how long will it be until Pugs targets Tamarin directly?"

[12:55] *** iblechbot joined
[13:03] *** rhizo joined
[13:04] *** fglock joined
[13:06] <fglock> xinming_: no, it will still take a few days to finish

[13:07] <fglock> it has been hard to debug it

[13:08] <fglock> Limbic_Region: re Tamarin - just write an emitter :)

[13:10] <Limbic_Region> fglock - yeah sure, I will do that on my lunch break

[13:15] *** rodi joined
[13:15] <svnbot6> r14669 | fglock++ | * MP6 - '/' can end a regex

[13:16] <fglock> Limbic_Region: v6-MiniPerl6/lib/MiniPerl6/Emitter.pm - you can save it to Emitter/Tamarin.pm

[13:18] <gaal> moose. has the sv? repo moved yet?

[13:19] <fglock> gaal: I think not

[13:40] *** weinig joined
[13:43] <svnbot6> r14670 | fglock++ | * MP6 - start integrating the Regex subcompiler into the main grammar

[13:52] <audreyt> gaal: scheduled in ~12hr from now. if I got too tired watching FIFA beach soccer world cup then 36hr from now

[13:52] <audreyt> but I think 12hr is correct.

[13:58] <audreyt> oh hey! the JS2 VM promised by brendan is finally here!

[13:58] <gaal> okay, thanks. I've been too out of things lately :(

[13:59] <audreyt> we can finally target JS without massive pain and performance penalty!

[13:59] <audreyt> mozilla++

[13:59] *** stevan joined
[13:59] <audreyt> tamarin++

[14:00] <audreyt> a JITing JS2 VM

[14:07] *** bonesss joined
[14:11] *** c6rbon joined
[14:20] *** mbradley|afk is now known as mbradley

[14:21] *** [particle] joined
[14:27] <nnunley> Wow. JS2 is out?

[14:37] *** fglock joined
[14:45] *** vel joined
[14:49] *** chris2 joined
[14:49] *** penk joined
[14:52] *** ludan joined
[14:53] *** rlb3 joined
[14:54] *** Debolaz2 is now known as Debolaz

[14:55] *** vel joined
[14:57] *** duend`sleeping is now known as duend

[14:59] *** elmex joined
[15:05] *** hexmode joined
[15:14] *** cjeris joined
[15:25] *** penk joined
[15:32] *** penk joined
[15:35] <svnbot6> r14671 | fglock++ | MP6 - intermediate regex compilation finished...

[15:44] *** autark_ joined
[15:52] *** hexmode joined
[15:56] *** fglock joined
[15:57] <GabrielVieira> fglock go sleep a little, please :P

[15:57] <fglock> Gabriel: how was the trip back?

[15:58] <fglock> is openfoundry down again?

[15:58] *** avarab is now known as avar

[15:59] <fglock> audreyt: MP6 can now compile token{...} - only needs a few tweaks (but I can't commit)

[15:59] <clkao> why can't you commit?

[15:59] <fglock> could be bootstrapped today

[16:00] <fglock> clkao: I can't ping openfoundry

[16:00] <fglock> clkao: what is the svk command to do a local ci ?

[16:01] <clkao> fglock: svk cp //mirror/pugs //local/pugs; svk sw //local/pugs

[16:01] <clkao> then you can just commit

[16:01] <clkao> (assuming //mirror/pugs is your current checkout)

[16:04] <GabrielVieira> wow

[16:04] <GabrielVieira> let me read this

[16:05] <GabrielVieira> fglock was really nice... and fast. I had no problem to come back :)

[16:05] *** buu joined
[16:08] *** buubot joined
[16:08] *** GnuVince joined
[16:18] *** kanru joined
[16:31] <nothingmuch> autark_: i don't really uinderstand larry's rulings from your line (haven't backlogged yet)

[16:31] <nothingmuch> err

[16:32] <nothingmuch> audreyt: bah

[16:32] <nothingmuch> why is the tab completion not in lexical order =/

[16:32] <nothingmuch> anymoose

[16:32] <nothingmuch> as far as I'm concerned Class/Role/* etc are entirely flexible

[16:32] <nothingmuch> that is Perl 6 should come with some default ones

[16:32] <nothingmuch> that adhere to @Larry's design

[16:33] <nothingmuch> if possible we refactor them so that this base set of metaclasses is made out of reusable components

[16:33] <nothingmuch> (more on that in the coming wekks, i guess)

[16:34] <nothingmuch> fwiw what I sketched up was a bit of moose and a lot of perl 6 but by no means anything definite

[16:36] *** polettix joined
[16:47] *** Limbic_Region joined
[17:07] <audreyt> sure

[17:07] <audreyt> 17:33 < nothingmuch> if possible we refactor them so that this base set of metaclasses is made out of reusable components

[17:07] <audreyt> and that's a good plan.

[17:11] *** andara left
[17:12] <fglock> audreyt: MP6 is nearly ready to parse itself

[17:17] *** bpphillips joined
[17:26] *** thepler joined
[17:28] *** elmex joined
[17:28] <audreyt> fglock++ # woot

[17:28] <audreyt> openfoundry seems to work here

[17:31] <fglock> I can't ping it - is it 140.109.17.109 ?

[17:32] <TimToady> yes

[17:32] <Limbic_Region> pinging isn't always a good indication of availability

[17:33] <Limbic_Region> ICMP may be disabled where as TCP port 80 or 443 may be enabled

[17:33] <fglock> trying again

[17:34] *** TSa joined
[17:34] *** rodi joined
[17:37] <fglock> no luck

[17:37] <audreyt> :/

[17:37] <Gothmog_> What does nmap say?

[17:37] <audreyt> ok, that increased priority of the move

[17:38] *** autark joined
[17:38] <clkao> audreyt: let's do it

[17:38] <clkao> do you have uptodate mirror?

[17:38] <clkao> dump the revs with pullyu -r

[17:39] <audreyt> I have uptodate mirror

[17:39] <audreyt> do I need to redump everything?

[17:40] <audreyt> I thought you had something on feather that you can just sync.

[17:40] <clkao> no

[17:40] <clkao> sync from where?

[17:41] <clkao> audreyt: you need to dump the revs i don't have on feather

[17:42] <GnuVince> Good day everyone

[17:42] <clkao> audreyt: pullyu -r14582@:HEAD ~/.svk/local /mirror/pugs

[17:43] <fglock> brb

[17:44] <TimToady> is there some way to make openfoundry ro so we don't get conflicting checkins?

[17:44] <audreyt> Can't locate SVN/Dump.pm

[17:44] <audreyt> unlisted dependency, fun

[17:44] <audreyt> TimToady: yes, openfoundry has a knob

[17:44] <audreyt> but the webui is currenly down

[17:44] <audreyt> so I can't flip it

[17:44] <audreyt> otoh, that also means commits can't ge through

[17:44] <audreyt> so it's essentially RO ;)

[17:45] <TimToady> and middle of the night there...

[17:45] <TimToady> so unlikely to change

[17:45] <TimToady> if history is any guide...

[17:45] <clkao> audreyt: also you need 0.02 svn::dump. at the time it wasn't released

[17:46] <[particle]> what happens, does the gerbil fall asleep and stop running the wheel that powers the net connection?

[17:46] <clkao> you can poison the svn.openfoundry.org dns though

[17:46] *** hexmode` joined
[17:46] <TimToady> that sounds antisocial

[17:47] <clkao> audreyt: wait a sec, 0.02 has incompat api

[17:47] <clkao> change

[17:47] <audreyt> yeah, that kills all other openfoundry projects

[17:47] <audreyt> clkao: mmm software! point me a tarball please.

[17:47] <audreyt> make me one with everything (to install)

[17:47] *** hexmode left
[17:47] <clkao> the one on cpan. but i am going to test this shit

[17:47] *** hexmode` left
[17:53] <clkao> audreyt: ENOBRAINPOWER. get 0.01 and apply my patch: http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=22429

[17:53] <clkao> i hate software

[17:53] <audreyt> thanks for your instruction :)

[17:53] <lambdabot> Title: #22429: Allowing reading from fh, http://tinyurl.com/vb9vu

[17:54] * obra loves how ENOBRAINPOWER matches ~[6~[6~[6~[6~his irc nick

[17:54] <fglock> :)

[17:55] <audreyt> En Obra In Power

[17:55] <TimToady> is there an easy way to use "svn lock" to lock everything, or do you have to feed it all the names?

[17:55] <TimToady> or would that fail right now too?

[17:55] <audreyt> lock locks subtree.

[17:56] <audreyt> but svn.openfoundry.org uses a subrequest to the website for auth

[17:56] <audreyt> so when website is down, auth always fail.

[17:56] <TimToady> *nod*

[17:56] <clkao> orafu: hahaaa

[17:56] <clkao> obra: haha

[17:57] * audreyt welcome our new obra-in-power overlords

[17:57] *** ludan joined
[17:57] <audreyt> clkao: is 1.4.0 binding fine for svk on feather

[17:57] <audreyt> or would you require some sort of trunk svn?

[17:58] <obra> audreyt: that would be the commitbit

[17:58] <fglock> [OT] any good reference on connecting to Windows shares from OSX?

[17:58] <audreyt> fglock: simply click on finder, then press apple-k

[17:58] <clkao> audreyt: you want 1.4.2

[17:58] <audreyt> or on the menu, "go" "connect to server"

[17:58] <clkao> audreyt: well, depends on what you want to do on feather

[17:59] <audreyt> clkao: commitbit + webdav

[17:59] <clkao> it doesn't need 1.4.2 if you are just being the master. pushmi would require 1.4.2

[17:59] <clkao> as slave

[17:59] <audreyt> ok. curiously the latest release is 1.4.0

[17:59] <audreyt> are they going to skip 1.4.1 or something?

[17:59] <clkao> audreyt: also if you have 1.4.2 and use svkmirror-pipeline branch, mirroring is superfast

[17:59] <clkao> yes

[17:59] <clkao> 1.4.2 is rolled

[17:59] <clkao> it's in the collab download directory

[17:59] <clkao> not announced yet

[18:00] *** buetow joined
[18:01] <audreyt> clkao: 1.4.2 on server+client?

[18:01] <audreyt> or just client?

[18:01] <clkao> client

[18:01] <audreyt> oh. so 1.4.0 on server is sufficient

[18:02] <audreyt> for the time being. ok

[18:02] <clkao> yep

[18:03] <audreyt> running pullyu...

[18:04] *** loumz joined
[18:07] <audreyt> clkao: ~audreyt/worktmp/delta-moose

[18:07] <audreyt> now what?

[18:07] <audreyt> commitbit first, or moddav_svn?

[18:08] <TimToady> um, openfoundry seems to have come up

[18:08] <TimToady> I got the admin page, anyway...

[18:09] <audreyt> really? I didn't

[18:09] <clkao> audreyt: dav_svn first

[18:09] <audreyt> TimToady: if you got the admin page please click on the "version control" tab and switch to read-only

[18:09] <clkao> audreyt: ~clkao/pugs.repo is uptodate

[18:10] <clkao> technology++

[18:10] <audreyt> clkao: ok. let me put it to var

[18:10] <clkao> computer: 您需要一個休息

[18:10] * audreyt gives clkao a ^C

[18:11] <TimToady> I do not see such a button

[18:12] <audreyt> clkao: er feather is running apache 1.3

[18:12] * audreyt ponders what to do

[18:12] <TimToady> perhaps a mere admin is not so privileged...

[18:12] <TimToady> maybe I can lock it

[18:12] *** justatheory joined
[18:14] <audreyt> please lock it then

[18:14] <clkao> that means you didn't compile the 1.4 with dav_svn anymoose

[18:15] <audreyt> there's apache2

[18:15] <audreyt> just not runnning

[18:15] <clkao> ah

[18:15] <audreyt> maybe I can have ap1 proxy to ap2 on another port

[18:15] <audreyt> sec

[18:15] * audreyt remember she has done this ~5 times on openfoundry

[18:16] <clkao> what's the apache1 doing?

[18:16] <audreyt> cgi-irc

[18:16] <audreyt> squirrelmail

[18:16] <jrockway> svnserve?

[18:16] <clkao> modperl invovled?

[18:16] <jrockway> that's how I cope with svn+apache1

[18:16] <audreyt> svnserve is not linkable

[18:16] <audreyt> we despreately want http://

[18:16] <jrockway> true, true

[18:17] <jrockway> SVN::Web, maybe?

[18:17] <fglock> audreyt: apple-k worked, but i get ".. one or more required items cannot be found Error code -43" - is this related to the sudo problem?

[18:17] <audreyt> fglock: no, I fixed the sudo problem

[18:17] <audreyt> I don't know :/

[18:17] <audreyt> fglock: try mounting FTP?

[18:18] <fglock> ok

[18:19] <fglock> audreyt: did mk find you?

[18:20] <audreyt> fglock: she mailed me and gave me time+place to meet tomorrow

[18:20] <fglock> nice

[18:22] <audreyt> clkao: in download area I don't see 1.4.2 tarball

[18:22] <audreyt> oh nvm

[18:22] <clkao> http://subversion.tigris.org/downloads/

[18:23] * audreyt found http://www.red-bean.com/maxb/svnrm/1.4.2/subversion-1.4.2.tar.bz2

[18:23] <Limbic_Region> two smart chicks in one place - every geek's fantasy

[18:23] <lambdabot> http://tinyurl.com/wd9m4

[18:23] <TimToady> okay, I think I switch rt.openfoundry.org to readonly by telling it to use svn.openfoundry.org/perl6 as its remote RO repo

[18:24] <TimToady> It does seem to prevent checkins, anyway...

[18:24] <clkao> TimToady++

[18:24] <TimToady> later we can make it remote to feather

[18:24] <audreyt> very nice

[18:25] <elmex> i've problems with pugs, Makefile.PL doesn't find 'ghc' but i've installed ghc-6.5, but it isn't 'ghc' in PATH. can i tell the pugs Makefile.PL somehow to use 'ghc-6.5'  ?

[18:25] <clkao> TimToady: the last is r14671 ?

[18:25] <TimToady> couldn't get it to lock the top dir though...

[18:25] <TimToady> yes, r14671

[18:25] <Limbic_Region> elmex - I use ghc-6.5 without a problem

[18:25] <audreyt> elmex: export GHC=/path/to/moose

[18:25] <clkao> audreyt: tell openfoundry they need to install pushmi

[18:25] <TimToady> whenever I tried "svn lock ." in pugs it said it couldn't lock my home dir.  seems like a bug

[18:25] <audreyt> clkao: I don't know anytihing about pushmi, so how about you tell it.

[18:26] <Limbic_Region> elmex - the executable itself isn't called ghc.exe ?

[18:26] <clkao> audreyt: i will put it on bps-public after dinner

[18:26] <elmex> Limbic_Region: i'm on GNU/Linux (on a amd64)

[18:26] <Limbic_Region> or just ghc on a *nix platform

[18:26] <elmex> Limbic_Region: .exe file endings are uncommon on that platform

[18:26] <Limbic_Region> my question is - is it a PATH issue or is it executable name issue

[18:27] <Limbic_Region> if it is a PATH issue, then it should be simple to solve

[18:27] <Limbic_Region> if ghc the executable doesn't exist it may be more of a problem

[18:27] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: ghc-6.5 on win32 is still called ghc.exe

[18:27] <elmex> Limbic_Region: i guess the issue is just that 'ghc-6.5' ne 'ghc'

[18:27] <audreyt> if you rename ghc-6.5.exe on win32 then it will still fail to probe

[18:27] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - I know, and it works great - which is why I am confused

[18:27] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - I know that too

[18:28] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - that's why I was trying to acertain if elmex had changed the executable name

[18:28] *** audreyt changes topic to: Repository Switch In Process - Commits Temporarily Disabled | run.pugscode.org | spec.pugscode.org | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com

[18:28] <audreyt> ah. ok

[18:28] <elmex> ah :)

[18:28] <Limbic_Region> elmex - as part of a path name, it shouldn't matter

[18:28] <Limbic_Region> as part of the executable name it will

[18:29] <ashleyb> fglock: is miniP6 going to obsolete P::C::Rule?  I've found some more bugs, are you interested in tests?

[18:30] <audreyt> nothing will ever obsolete tests :)

[18:30] <ashleyb> yes but the tests are p5 tests.

[18:30] <audreyt> PCR will remain a perl5 module.

[18:31] <audreyt> emitted-to-p5 module, that is :)

[18:31] <audreyt> i.e. interface should stay

[18:31] <ashleyb> true, but is development going to be discontinued?

[18:31] <ashleyb> ok

[18:31] <elmex> where can i read about applying the tests in t/ to a dofferent perl6 implementation than pugs?

[18:31] <audreyt> elmex: "make test-perl5" does that

[18:31] <elmex> ah, ok

[18:31] <elmex> thanks

[18:32] <audreyt> clkao: did you take care to make uuid agree with upstream?

[18:32] <audreyt> in pugs.repo that is

[18:33] <clkao> yes

[18:33] <clkao> pullyu does that automagically

[18:33] <clkao> it's design to reproduce the original repository

[18:33] <fglock> ashleyb: yes, tests are good!

[18:34] <ashleyb> cool..

[18:34] <fglock> PCR is only going to be obsoleted if MP6 works really well :)

[18:35] <TimToady> so far it's just a bunch of MP promises... <ducks>

[18:37] <audreyt> indeed, before te emitter+runtime really works, it amounts to a bunch of AST floating above the cloud :)

[18:38] <[particle]> is it MP-complete yet?

[18:39] <TimToady> no, but it's looking pretty 6y.

[18:39] <Limbic_Region> [particle] - no, just MP-hard

[18:40] <TimToady> Any ETA on the new Rushing Featheration?

[18:41] <audreyt> the repo is converted. I'm setting up dav

[18:41] <audreyt> read-only access expected to be restored in <30min

[18:41] <audreyt> then it's setting up commitbit

[18:42] <audreyt> and resend all the invications

[18:42] *** todd- joined
[18:42] <audreyt> that can take another hour or so.

[18:42] <TimToady> "I'm sorry Dav, I can't allow you to do that..."

[18:42] <audreyt> fortunately it's not even 5pm here

[18:42] <fglock> audreyt: re error -43 - I was typing the wrong share name :P everything i fine now

[18:42] <TimToady> k, guess I'll go take a cold shower...

[18:43] <fglock> is

[18:51] *** vel joined
[18:58] *** vel joined
[19:02] <audreyt> dav installed. proxy installed.

[19:02] <audreyt> just a sec...

[19:03] *** eggzeck joined
[19:07] <GnuVince> audreyt: I want to buy a few items from cafepress.com/pugscode.  Does the money go to you?

[19:09] <audreyt> GnuVince: they do

[19:10] <pasteling> "fglock" at 200.17.89.88 pasted "intermediate compilation of token{abc} to MP6" (4 lines, 335B) at http://sial.org/pbot/20952

[19:11] <GnuVince> audreyt: I'll throw in an extra mug then :)

[19:12] <audreyt> :D

[19:12] *** fglock joined
[19:12] * audreyt finds debian surprisingly sane despite never havingu used it

[19:13] <clkao> most OS still alive are sane to some extend...

[19:13] <audreyt> *cough* AIX

[19:13] *** rindolf joined
[19:14] <rindolf> Hi all.

[19:14] <rindolf> What, no committs????!

[19:14] <clkao> how about you try committing

[19:14] <audreyt> rindolf: relocating to a server that won't shut down two days per week

[19:14] <rindolf> clkao: I don't have anything to commit.

[19:14] <audreyt> clkao: should I simply Include the .conf written by commitbit?

[19:14] <clkao> yes

[19:14] <rindolf> audreyt: where is this server going to be located?

[19:14] <fglock> audreyt: see nopaste - now parsing "method"; after that I'd like some help to make it sane :)

[19:15] <clkao> audreyt: it should have the authz etc all set for you

[19:15] <ingy> AIX was dead 15 years ago

[19:15] <clkao> ingy!

[19:16] <ingy> hi clkao!

[19:16] <audreyt> ingy: that makes it a long-lived undead

[19:16] <clkao> how are you!

[19:16] <audreyt> aka -- lich!

[19:16] <audreyt> ungratefaul undead operating systems...

[19:16] * ingy is surprised at being greeted with excitement from cl

[19:16] <ingy> clkao: I am pretty well. where are you today?

[19:17] <clkao> london, baby

[19:17] <ingy> going to Taiwan any time soon?

[19:17] <clkao> next month

[19:17] <ingy> how long?

[19:18] <clkao> dunno

[19:18] <ingy> I'd like to flatshare some time with someone in .tw for a month or so...

[19:19] <pasteling> "ashleyb" at 66.201.51.66 pasted "PCR tests (for fglock) -- variations on a theme: more hanging tests (and some similar ones that pass)..." (42 lines, 929B) at http://sial.org/pbot/20953

[19:19] <ingy> but that thought is vague and noncommital at this point

[19:19] <audreyt> clkao: commitbit sets up both authz and basic auth.

[19:19] <audreyt> correct?

[19:20] <clkao> audreyt: yep

[19:22] <fglock> ashleyb: thanks!

[19:23] <rindolf> Hi ingy

[19:24] <audreyt> trying svk mi --relocate

[19:26] <clkao> where to?

[19:28] *** mosca joined
[19:32] *** GabrielVieira joined
[19:33] <TimToady> 'course, it's possible the jinx will now be transferred from openfoundry to feather...

[19:34] <audreyt> clkao: weird, PROPFIND still doesn't seem to be proxied

[19:34] <audreyt> GET etc is fine

[19:35] <clkao> iirc you need to speicfy what methods you want to proxy

[19:35] <clkao> it's a bit painful

[19:35] <clkao> how about put apache2 at 80 and proxy the apache1 stuff

[19:36] <audreyt> clkao: can you find the relevant conf a bit?

[19:36] * audreyt is googling but doesn't seem to yet turn up things

[19:37] <clkao> h6w ab64t 4se -er3ba3

[19:37] <obra> to proxypass all methods from an apache1 to apache2?

[19:37] <clkao> how about use perlbal ;p

[19:37] <audreyt> obra: yes

[19:37] <obra> hang on.

[19:37] <audreyt> clkao: stop introducing new complexities please :)

[19:38] <clkao> it's already included in pushmi :P

[19:39] <clkao> audreyt: trailing slash for your Proxy command?

[19:39] <obra>     ProxyPass /svk http://localhost:8800/svk

[19:39] <obra>     ProxyPassReverse /svk http://localhost:8800/svk

[19:39] <obra> actually works for me

[19:40] <obra> I don't have special Limit or LimitExcept lines

[19:40] <audreyt> a sec.

[19:42] *** fglock joined
[19:42] <audreyt> and in 8800 it's <Location /svk>

[19:42] <audreyt> not <Location /svk/> ?

[19:43] <obra>  loking

[19:43] <fglock> home &

[19:44] <obra> Location /svk

[19:44] <obra> as generated by commitbit

[19:44] <obra> (this is the commitbit-generated httpd.conf fragment)

[19:44] <audreyt> it is the trailing slash.

[19:44] <audreyt> clkao++ # entirely correct.

[19:44] <audreyt> changing /pugs/ to /pugs solved it.

[19:44] <obra>  commitbit needs more magic to detect and fix slash issues.

[19:45] <audreyt> it's actually Proxy layer :)

[19:45] <obra> but first we'd need tuo understand what's right ;)

[19:45] <audreyt> $ svk mi --relocate http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/ /pugs/trunk

[19:45] <lambdabot> Title: Revision 14671: /

[19:45] <audreyt> Mirror relocated.

[19:45] <audreyt> woot!

[19:45] <clkao> :D

[19:46] *** audreyt changes topic to: New Repository - http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/ - Commit Bit Will Arrive By Mail Shortly | run.pugscdoe.org | spec.pugscode.org | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com

[19:46] <obra> Retrieving log information from 10641 to 14671

[19:46] <clkao> obra: you using pipeline?

[19:46] <obra> clkao: nein. still on 1.40

[19:46] <audreyt> TimToady: as it seems I can't access openfoundry, can you relocate its mirror when you next get cycle?

[19:47] <clkao> i would be very surprised if openfoundry can be turned from master to a ro mirror of something

[19:47] <[particle]> how do i change my wc to point to the new repo? (svn)

[19:47] <kolibrie> audreyt: topic typo: run.pugscdoe.org

[19:47] <clkao> svn sw --relocate OLD http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/

[19:47] <lambdabot> Title: Revision 14671: /

[19:47] <audreyt> clkao: I hacked in that feature thank you very much :)

[19:47] <TimToady> done

[19:47] <audreyt> (to RT-Foundry)

[19:48] <[particle]> clkao++

[19:48] *** electrogeek joined
[19:48] <obra> audreyt: evil

[19:49] <audreyt> obra: part of original spec

[19:49] <obra> aw. no code.pugscode.org

[19:49] <audreyt> it's commitbit.

[19:49] <TimToady> hmm, now going through openfoundry I get (for svn up):

[19:49] <TimToady> svn: REPORT request failed on '/pugs/!svn/vcc/default'

[19:49] <TimToady> svn: No such revision 14671

[19:49] <audreyt> not code.

[19:49] <obra> *nod*

[19:49] <audreyt> walking advertisemnt :)

[19:49] <obra> Thanks :)

[19:49] <obra> we need a logo

[19:50] <audreyt> TimToady: wait a while for it to resync

[19:50] <integral> yay, feather's much faster for me :)

[19:51] <audreyt> glad to hear that!

[19:51] <audreyt> now setting up commitbit.pugscode.org...

[19:53] <clkao> audreyt: you might want to turn on compression as well

[19:53] *** audreyt changes topic to: http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/ - Commit Bit Will Arrive By Mail Shortly | run.pugscode.org spec.pugscode.org | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com

[19:53] <audreyt> clkao: how do I do that?

[19:54] <obra> enable mod_deflate in apache2

[19:54] <audreyt> working on it

[19:56] <dmq> timtoady: did you get a chance to consider the regex stuff I asked about yet?

[19:56] <audreyt> will SetInputFilter DEFLATE also help?

[19:58] <GnuVince> S03 mentions that the range operator doesn't do backward ranges.  What if there was an operator to do it?  I suggest inverting the dots to signify this intention ;-)

[19:59] <audreyt> what a fabolous idea

[19:59] <audreyt> so they will appear at top of the characte box

[19:59] <audreyt> instead of at the bottom baseline

[20:00] <GnuVince> ~(1..3) eq "1 2 3"; ~(3􏿽xA81) eq "3 2 1"

[20:01] * Khisanth stabs GnuVince

[20:01] <Khisanth> that looks like two specks of dust on the screen

[20:03] <obra> audreyt: I haven't tried the SetInputFilter method

[20:03] <GnuVince> Yeah, they're not very visible.  Not sure what the accent name is in english, but that's a "tr􏿽xE9ma" (french), the double-dots you put in the word No􏿽xEBl

[20:04] <GnuVince> Khisanth: and fear not, I wasn't actually suggesting it.

[20:06] <audreyt> gzip is on.

[20:07] *** bernhard joined
[20:08] <eviltwin_b> "double-dot diacritical".  ("diaresis" technically refers to the meaning in French and English, not the symbol)

[20:09] <GnuVince> eviltwin_b: Wow, thanks.  That's quite a mouthful.

[20:09] <audreyt> clkao: pipeline branch:

[20:09] <audreyt> RA layer request failed: REPORT request failed on 'http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs': REPORT of 'http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs': 400 Bad Request (http://svn.pugscode.org) at /opt/local/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.8/SVK/Mirror/Backend/SVNRa.pm line 241.

[20:10] <audreyt> hm wait. maybe my conf error

[20:13] <eviltwin_b> as for operators:  keep .., as a symonym for .>. , then .<. can be the reverse

[20:14] <eviltwin_b> ?

[20:14] <audreyt> visually confusing with .>>. though.

[20:14] <eviltwin_b> (can't put the arrpw on the outside, that looks too much like hyper ops

[20:14] <audreyt> $x.>>.sort

[20:14] <audreyt> is hyper

[20:14] <eviltwin_b> ah

[20:14] <eviltwin_b> I missed that opne, thought all hyper ops were on the outside

[20:15] <GnuVince> reverse 1..3 sounds perfrectly reasonable.

[20:15] <audreyt> .oO

[20:15] <audreyt> Oo.

[20:15] <eviltwin_b> oh wit, it is, that's the dpt operator

[20:15] <eviltwin_b> my, what a tangled web we weave...

[20:15] * eviltwin_b can't type

[20:16] <eviltwin_b> "oh wait, that's the dot operator"

[20:16] <audreyt> hm, I wonder if we can make a cert for feather that also lists svn.pugscode.org.

[20:17] <audreyt> until that's solved, an additional warning may appear

[20:17] <audreyt> but I've just set up https://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/

[20:17] <audreyt> for people in .cn have reported that https is easier to get through.

[20:18] <clkao> or there should be a cn site powered by pushmi..

[20:18] <audreyt> pipelining appears to work.

[20:18] <audreyt> not as in speed, as in not crashing.

[20:18] <clkao> not feeling it faster than raw sync?

[20:19] <audreyt> for 0rev

[20:19] <audreyt> they seem to be the same

[20:19] <audreyt> ;)

[20:19] <audreyt> maybe I should try a full sync to test.

[20:19] <clkao> or run two syncs side by side

[20:19] <audreyt> https and http should be same in speed right?

[20:20] <audreyt> (roughly)

[20:20] <audreyt> (with pipelining)

[20:20] <audreyt> or is http:// still faster?

[20:20] <clkao> i don't know

[20:20] <audreyt> ok, I'll bench.

[20:20] <clkao> you can do live test ;)

[20:20] <audreyt> considering Basic Auth, I feel more comfortable with https

[20:21] <clkao> right

[20:21] <clkao> what was openfoundry repository using again?

[20:21] *** weinig is now known as weinig|bbl

[20:21] <audreyt> Basic, but then it also has https

[20:21] <audreyt> so I was always using https

[20:21] <clkao> it did?

[20:21] <audreyt> yes, by request of agentzh relayed by me

[20:22] <clkao> oh well, anyone who wants to temper the pugs repository could just come here and ask for commitbit ;)

[20:22] <audreyt> exactly ;)

[20:22] <audreyt> it's not as if we have something to hide ;)

[20:22] <clkao> i guess it's still different from "tempering under audrety's name"

[20:22] <audreyt> I'm fine with people committing as audrety

[20:23] <audreyt> committing as audreyt however is more trouble :)

[20:23] <clkao> i haven't got commitbit mail.. .

[20:23] <audreyt> pipelining appears to be faster by about 40%

[20:24] <audreyt> but that's just avg'ing 10revs of data before I ^C'ed it

[20:24] <audreyt> no you havn't because I was setting up gzip and https instead of commitbit! :)

[20:24] * audreyt goes back setting up commitbit.

[20:25] <TimToady> just changed openfoundry to use https, but it still gives same REPORT error

[20:25] <clkao> audreyt: yayy

[20:26] <TimToady> what exactly is doing this resyncing that I'm supposed to wait for?

[20:28] <TimToady> and did I just tell it to restart by changing to https?  :/

[20:28] <audreyt> you... did

[20:28] <audreyt> and because it blocks on auth

[20:28] <audreyt> it will never happen :D

[20:29] <audreyt> (credential requires a "p" from tty)

[20:29] <TimToady> should it use 's' or not?

[20:29] <audreyt> please change back to http

[20:29] <audreyt> not 's'

[20:29] <audreyt> and pray that it will resync instead of blocking

[20:29] * audreyt crosses her fingers

[20:29] <TimToady> k

[20:30] <audreyt> whew it's resyncing.

[20:30] <audreyt> so just wait for a couple hours

[20:30] <audreyt> :)

[20:30] <TimToady> voting &

[20:30] * audreyt meanwhile goes back setting up commitbit For Real

[20:31] * audreyt praises BestPracticalSolutions for software that (mostly) Just Works

[20:39] *** b_jonas joined
[20:39] *** larsen_ joined
[20:39] *** b_jonas left
[20:40] <audreyt> clkao: from Rio here, pipelining is exactly 2x the speed than non-

[20:40] <audreyt> taking 50%~60% of the time

[20:40] <audreyt> clkao: great work :)

[20:40] <audreyt> (if you deduct the initial logsyncing which takes longer, it seems to be exactly 2x)

[20:41] *** duend is now known as duend`school

[20:42] <clkao> hurrah

[20:43] <clkao> I ROCK

[20:44] <audreyt> clkao++ clkao++

[20:44] <audreyt> does that make DAV bearable? :)

[20:44] <clkao> ya

[20:44] <clkao> a little bit

[20:48] *** duend`school is now known as duend

[20:48] <duend> exit

[20:48] *** duend left
[20:52] <dmq> could somebody tell me what 'CY'=~ms/ [ [ A :: | C :: | D :: ] X | [ C :: | D ::] Y ] / does?

[20:52] *** DHGE joined
[20:53] <dmq> eval  'CY'=~ms/ [ [ A :: | C :: | D :: ] X | [ C :: | D ::] Y ] /

[20:54] <audreyt> what's ms?

[20:54] <audreyt> ?eval 'CY' ~~ m/ [ [ A :: | C :: | D :: ] X | [ C :: | D ::] Y ] /

[20:54] <audreyt> oh, match with sigspace.

[21:00] <audreyt> ERROR - Error sending mail: error when closing pipe to /usr/sbin/sendmail: No child processes

[21:00] <audreyt> bother...

[21:01] <obra> ouch

[21:03] <dmq> well, i dont really mind what kind of match it is im just wonder if it matches.

[21:03] <dmq> or rather if its supposed to match.

[21:03] *** boo_ joined
[21:03] <dmq> does the '::' fail the whole match?

[21:04] <[particle]> no, it fails the group

[21:04] <[particle]> ::: fails the whole match

[21:04] *** hexmode joined
[21:04] <dmq> so it fails the inner group and then tries the second?

[21:05] <[particle]> yes

[21:07] <dmq> so when you say ::: fails the whole match, what would happen if the input string was CYCX and the pattern was [ [ A :: | C ::: | D :: ] X | [ C :: | D ::] Y ]

[21:07] <dmq> (note the use of a ::: )

[21:07] <dmq> would it match the 'CX'?

[21:08] *** electrogeek is now known as electrogeek_brb

[21:08] <[particle]> yes, i believe so

[21:08] <audreyt> bother...

[21:08] <audreyt> er, sorry, ww :)

[21:08] <audreyt> (but that was accurate as well.)

[21:11] <dmq> hrm, im trying to figure out if ::: is what im calling '(*CUT)'

[21:11] <dmq> sorry for the strange questions

[21:12] <[particle]> np, hang on and i'll get pmichaud in here

[21:12] <pmichaud_> here

[21:12] <pmichaud_> oh, input string of CYCX  on that pattern fails

[21:12] <dmq> fails?

[21:13] <dmq> so its not what im calling (*CUT). shoot.

[21:13] <dmq> so then i dont see the difference between ::: and <commit>

[21:13] <pmichaud_> ::: fails a rule, <commit> fails a match

[21:13] <[particle]> oh, it'll match the C, then fail on the X because the ::: causes the whole match to fail on backtracking

[21:13] <pmichaud_> the difference is when subrules are involved

[21:14] <pmichaud_> a rule containing ::: will fail that particular rule (if it was invokved as a subrule), but the outer match will continue

[21:14] <pmichaud_> a rule containing <commit>  will cause the outer match to fail also

[21:14] <dmq> ok, so when no subrules are involved <commit> and ::: are equivelent?

[21:14] <pmichaud_> effectively, yes.

[21:14] <dmq> hrm. ok.

[21:16] <dmq> a single ':' seems like a post op way to have a (?>....) wrapped around the previous atom.

[21:16] <dmq> is that about right?

[21:16] <pmichaud_> pretty much.  Syntactically it's much cleaner

[21:17] <pmichaud_> PGE implements ':' as a postfix quantifier

[21:17] <dmq> ok, so perl5 is doing that with possessive quantifiers, but its basically the same thing.

[21:17] <dmq> so iiuir X+: in perl6 is the same as X++ in perl5.10

[21:18] <dmq> since X++ is the same as (?>X+)

[21:18] <pmichaud_> I'd have to look up the X++ syntax (haven't studied perl 5.10 much)

[21:18] *** prefiks joined
[21:18] <dmq> its new.

[21:18] <pmichaud_> but yes, X+: is (?>X+)

[21:18] <[particle]> is ++ friedl's?

[21:19] <[particle]> if so, yes

[21:19] <dmq> ok, so then we cant do '::', but it looks like ::: is what im calling (*COMMIT)

[21:19] <dmq> ++ is the notation friedl recommended. It originates in a java package but i forget which.

[21:20] <pmichaud_> I like the perl6 notation much better.  Of course, that doesn't really work for p5, because : isn't meta in p5

[21:20] <dmq> no. :-)

[21:20] <dmq> im going to have to figure out a name for '::'

[21:21] <[particle]> (*CUTGROUP) ?

[21:21] <pmichaud_> PGE uses   '::' =>  'cut group'

[21:21] <pmichaud_> ':::' => 'cut rule'

[21:21] <pmichaud_> '<commit>' => 'commit'

[21:22] <pmichaud_> <commit> is also known as "cut match" in PGE

[21:22] <dmq> (*CUT) is different in its current existance.

[21:23] <dmq> it tells the engine to skip the already matched characters when looking for a valid match.

[21:23] <pmichaud_> like <cut> ?

[21:23] <dmq> my understanding is cut is a little different.

[21:23] <dmq> your cut i mean.

[21:24] <[particle]> what happens if you backtrack past (*CUT)?

[21:24] <dmq> for instance 'aaaaabaaaab'=~/a+b(*CUT)(*FAIL)/ would first try at pos 0, match up to the 'b' fail, and start again at the 'a' following the first 'b'.

[21:25] <pmichaud_> hmmm

[21:25] <dmq> particle: it fails the match at the current startpoint, and advances the startpoint to at earliest the cursor point where the cut was encounterd.

[21:25] <pmichaud_> it's pretty close to a p6 cut, with the exception that a p6 cut also fails the match

[21:25] <[particle]> ok

[21:26] <[particle]> p6cut is destructive

[21:26] <audreyt> clkao: htdigest support possible?

[21:28] *** justatheory joined
[21:30] <dmq> think about what 'aaaaabaaaab'=~/a+bc/ would do if the optimiser werent smart enough to look for the 'c'

[21:30] <clkao> audreyt: you ask for a lot ;)

[21:31] <dmq> like for instance: 'aaaaabaaaab'=~/a+b[XYZc]/

[21:31] <pmichaud_> PGE doesn't have that optimization yet, but it will

[21:31] <pmichaud_> PGE will be smart enough to know that /a+b[XYZc]/ is the same as /a+:b[XYZc]/

[21:32] <dmq> Cool! ( PCRE already is. And its on my todo list for perl5. :-)

[21:32] <audreyt> clkao: you can say "no" :)

[21:32] <dmq> but anyway, forget that point.

[21:32] <dmq> consider how much work happens with 'aaaaabaaaab'=~/a+b[XYZc]/

[21:32] <clkao> audreyt: not too soon. but you have a commitbit

[21:32] <dmq> wheras 'aaaaabaaaab'=~/a+b(*CUT)[XYZc]/ would do a fraction

[21:33] <clkao> i thinik it's a matter httpd.conf

[21:33] <audreyt> ok. once the critical injection attack is fixed I'll happily do that

[21:34] <dmq> do you see what im saying pmichaud?

[21:35] <pmichaud_> oh, yes, I see

[21:36] <dmq> its like an optimisation hint.

[21:37] <pmichaud_> in p6 rules we would do    / [ a+b :: ] <[XYZc]> /

[21:37] <dmq> ive actually got perl5 working so that you can set the point independently of the (*CUT).

[21:37] <pmichaud_> but hmmm, that still doesn't get the same behavior

[21:37] <pmichaud_> I'll have to think about that one a bit

[21:38] <dmq> incidentally my (*COMMIT) is just a special case of my (*CUT), on failure it sets the "cutpoint" to the end of the string.

[21:39] <audreyt> clkao: you got spam. can you try commit to pugs?

[21:40] *** bpphillips left
[21:40] *** justatheory_ joined
[21:40] <dmq> btw, all of this is in blead perl if you want to play with it.

[21:42] <pmichaud_> that would be cool

[21:42] <pmichaud_> tnx

[21:42] <pmichaud_> afk & # making dinner

[21:43] <dmq> cool, me too.

[21:45] <audreyt> svnbot now checks every 30 seconds

[21:45] <audreyt> since it's a file:/// check :)

[21:45] *** svnbot6 joined
[21:46] <[particle]> that's a nice improvement :)

[21:46] <[particle]> ...and side effect

[21:46] <audreyt> :D

[21:46] *** weinig|bbl is now known as weinig

[21:47] *** eggzeck joined
[21:49] *** frederico joined
[21:50] <audreyt> clkao: so. to sync back into svn.perl.org

[21:50] <audreyt> and to svn.openfoundry.org

[21:50] <audreyt> pushmi is cleanest right?

[21:50] <audreyt> compared to svnsync, svk smerge

[21:52] *** Debolaz2 joined
[21:55] <clkao> audreyt: pushmi has to be run on the slave site

[21:55] <clkao> the good thing is that it also takes commit

[21:55] <clkao> so it's seamless

[21:55] <audreyt> oh hm.

[21:55] <clkao> to clients

[21:56] <audreyt> so we need to talk to Robrt?

[21:56] <audreyt> to make svn.perl.org a pushmi mirror that is

[21:56] <audreyt> or one of the new boxes

[21:58] <audreyt> commitbit.pugscode.org is almost ready.

[21:58] <audreyt> pending a single vendor fix :)

[21:59] *** jferrero joined
[21:59] <audreyt> oh it's in.

[21:59] <audreyt> obra++

[22:09] <[smash]> hi all

[22:10] <smash_> anyone here working on pugs/trunk/v6/v6-MiniPerl6/ ?

[22:11] <audreyt> smash_: me, and I suspect fglock in a couple hours

[22:12] <smash_> nice

[22:12] <smash_> any docs/papers/examples i could read about it ?

[22:13] <smash_> (looking at the code now)

[22:13] <audreyt> smash_: there is http://pugs.blogs.com/photos/visiolization/mp6bootstrap.html

[22:13] <lambdabot> Title: Visiolization: Mp6bootstrap, http://tinyurl.com/yxb6ux

[22:13] <audreyt> there is also t/

[22:13] <audreyt> not much beyond those for now

[22:14] <audreyt> a HACKING file would be nice

[22:14] <smash_> cool.. let me take a look at those

[22:14] <audreyt> but I'm swamped in apache configuration land, so please bear with me :)

[22:14] <smash_> heh

[22:14] <smash_> ahh.. apache configuration land ? not that bad

[22:15] <smash_> (could be worse)

[22:15] <obra> . o O { Could be AOLServer}

[22:16] <audreyt> apache 2.2 is actally good.

[22:16] <smash_> need any help with apaches .conf ?

[22:16] * smash_ still sticks to 1.3

[22:16] <pasteling> "ashleyb" at 66.201.51.66 pasted "(for fglock) -- here are some more detailed tests for that hang problem." (55 lines, 1.4K) at http://sial.org/pbot/20958

[22:17] <ashleyb> @tell fglock here are some more detailed tests for that hang problem.  ---   http://sial.org/pbot/20958

[22:17] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[22:17] *** rlb3 joined
[22:28] <smash_> ahh.. haskell function declaration.. neat

[22:30] *** rodi joined
[22:30] *** mAdzzzzzz joined
[22:31] <audreyt> http://commitbit.pugscode.org/ is up.

[22:31] <lambdabot> Title: Welcome to CommitBit for our projects

[22:32] <jrockway> hmm, the links seem broken

[22:32] <jrockway> they link to perlcabal.org

[22:32] <jrockway> which is 404-ing

[22:32] *** Limbic_Region joined
[22:33] <audreyt> really?

[22:33] <audreyt> try force reload

[22:35] <smash_> it looks fine to me

[22:35] <jrockway> weirdness

[22:35] <jrockway> now it works, but it's at svn.pugscode.com:9999

[22:35] <jrockway> (it wasn't before)

[22:36] <audreyt> nod. it was wrong for a minute.

[22:36] <[particle]> i've seen the same behavior

[22:37] <audreyt> in any case everything should work now.

[22:37] <audreyt> scripting the commit-bit-resender with pugs...

[22:38] <jrockway> heh, does jifty run on top of pugs yet?

[22:38] <audreyt> if you consider

[22:38] <audreyt> use perl5:Jifty;

[22:38] <audreyt> then yes ;) but no, we havn't ported Jifty to run on v6.pm.

[22:43] <svnbot6> r14673 | audreyt++ | * Massive revisionism: Change all files in docs/ to mention svn.pugscode.org

[22:43] <svnbot6> r14673 | audreyt++ |   not svn.openfoundry.org.

[22:44] <audreyt> yay, svnbot works.

[22:44] <audreyt> [particle]: you got a minute?

[22:44] <audreyt> or anyone who want to volunteer for commitbit testing before I spam everybody? :)

[22:45] <[particle]> ok

[22:45] <[particle]> spam me! spam me!

[22:45] <audreyt> k. checkmail

[22:46] <audreyt> then do a trivial commit

[22:46] <audreyt> then goto commitbit.pugscode.org and invite the next victim^Wvolunteer

[22:46] <audreyt> so we can make sure the entire chain works

[22:46] <audreyt> chain, as in chain mail

[22:46] <TimToady> the page doesn't list invites sent?  actually, lists them as fait accompli...

[22:46] <audreyt> which provides pretty good AC

[22:46] <[particle]> i'm logged in

[22:47] <audreyt> [particle]: try commit

[22:47] <[particle]> hrmm

[22:47] <audreyt> TimToady: correct

[22:47] <[particle]> it said i was logged in

[22:47] <[particle]> then i clicked 'Preferences' and it sent me to login screen

[22:47] <audreyt> then you should be able to set password or something

[22:47] <audreyt> that link is only good for setting pass, I think...

[22:47] <audreyt> or is the link broken?

[22:48] <audreyt> /msg me the link you got from mail?

[22:48] <[particle]> well, now that i'm *really* logged in, there is no link

[22:48] <[particle]> for preferences

[22:48] <audreyt> it should be http://svn.pugscode.org:9999/prefs

[22:48] <lambdabot> Title: Login

[22:50] <[particle]> that points me to login

[22:50] <[particle]> lemme log out

[22:50] <audreyt> ok

[22:50] <[particle]> reload is slow

[22:50] <smash_> it should have something more after prefs

[22:51] <smash_> logout & login

[22:51] <smash_> (or clena local cache)

[22:51] <smash_> using firefox ?

[22:51] <[particle]> yes ff2

[22:51] <smash_> sometimes firefox can be a pain

[22:51] <[particle]> when i'm logged in, i have Home | Login

[22:51] <smash_> (because of cached stuff)

[22:52] <smash_> Home ! Login is what i have

[22:52] <audreyt> the database thinks [particle] is as much as login as me

[22:52] <[particle]> lemme commit

[22:52] <audreyt> so must be cache at some layer

[22:52] <audreyt> sure

[22:53] <smash_> does it send you a "special" link

[22:53] <smash_> after or before register ?

[22:53] <audreyt> smash_: I invited [particle]

[22:53] <Limbic_Region> pugscode.org down?

[22:54] <[particle]> yes , i got an email message, with a special signup link

[22:54] *** justatheory joined
[22:54] <[particle]> from [email@hidden.address]
[22:54] <smash_> did audreyt received an invite too ?

[22:54] <svnbot6> r14674 | particle++ | s/\t/ /g

[22:54] <[particle]> yay

[22:55] <smash_> different links ?

[22:55] <[particle]> now, whot shall i invite? mestre.smash?

[22:55] <Limbic_Region> pardon the confusion but 1.  Is pugscode.org being down known and 2.  How do I tell svn to point to the new repo permanently?

[22:55] * smash_ blushes.

[22:55] <[particle]> lr: svn sw <old> <new>

[22:56] <[particle]> wait, i think i'm missing an option there...

[22:56] <TimToady> --relocate?

[22:56] <[particle]> that's the one

[22:56] * Limbic_Region doesn't see a relocate option in help

[22:56] <smash_>   --relocate               : relocate via URL-rewriting

[22:56] <smash_> $ svn help sw

[22:57] <Limbic_Region> ahh

[22:57] <Limbic_Region> ok - and the old repo was at what url?

[22:57] <audreyt> svn sw --relocate http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs

[22:57] <[particle]> audrey, what next?

[22:57] <obra> audreyt: Set-cookie: JIFTY_SID_80

[22:57] <lambdabot> Title: Revision 343: /

[22:57] <audreyt> should do. try it?

[22:57] <obra> port 9999 + a cookie for port 80 == sad

[22:57] <audreyt> obra: ah. what should I do to fix that?

[22:58] <Limbic_Region> thanks all

[22:58] <smash_> obra: ?

[22:58] <obra> audreyt: is it running on 9999 intentionally?

[22:58] <Limbic_Region> now about http://pugscode.org being down - known issue or just me?

[22:58] <audreyt> obra: yes

[22:58] <[particle]> obra:  that might be happening with bitcard on rt.perl.org/rt3/ as well, then

[22:58] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: known, will deal later

[22:58] <Limbic_Region> k

[22:58] <smash_> Limbic_Region: no page here too

[22:59] <obra> [particle]: no. that's different i think

[22:59] <obra> audreyt: what port is in our jifty config file?

[22:59] <audreyt> 8888

[22:59] <audreyt> just changed to 9999

[22:59] <audreyt>     BaseURL: http://svn.pugscode.org:9999

[22:59] <lambdabot> Title: Welcome to CommitBit for PugsCode

[22:59] <audreyt>     Port: 9999

[22:59] <audreyt> should work now

[22:59] <obra> audreyt: send me a commit bit and I'll test ;)

[23:00] <audreyt> [particle]: retry login, then invite a new administrator

[23:00] <smash_> no httpd running on pugscode.org:80

[23:00] <[particle]> ok, will try

[23:00] <audreyt> [particle]: [email@hidden.address] under name "lwall"

[23:00] <[particle]> Ctrl-<F5> to clear cache

[23:01] <[particle]> Transferring data from svn.pugscode.org... (takes a while)

[23:01] <obra> audreyt: in devel mode?

[23:01] <audreyt> obra: commit bit sent

[23:01] <[particle]> not working for me

[23:01] <audreyt> obra: no, devel=0

[23:01] <[particle]> so, i login => welcome page

[23:02] <[particle]> click 'home'

[23:02] <[particle]> click 'pugs'

[23:02] <[particle]> click 'Admin page'

[23:02] <[particle]> => login page

[23:02] <[particle]> i'll try another browser

[23:02] <audreyt> hm. maybe it cached http://svn.pugscode.org:9999/admin

[23:02] <lambdabot> Title: Manage projects and repositories

[23:02] <obra> sJIFTY_SID_9999

[23:02] <audreyt> can you try going in to commitbit.pugscode.org directly?

[23:02] <smash_> if it keeps sending you to "login page" it's because you aren't logged in

[23:03] <audreyt> obra: as in, it works for you?

[23:03] <obra> I get the right cookie. but i'm waiting on greylisting

[23:03] <audreyt> in the "people" page it should display whether they picked it up or not

[23:03] * audreyt hacks

[23:04] <[particle]> grr

[23:04] <obra> audreyt: move unconfirmed people to  a separate section?

[23:04] * Limbic_Region isn't in a big rush to get his commit bit and admin status back but doesn't want to be forgotten about either

[23:06] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: all in due time :)

[23:08] <[particle]> yeah, i can't get in no matter what

[23:08] * audreyt frowns

[23:08] <smash_> error_log ?

[23:08] <obra> cookie issues?

[23:08] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: can you try login?

[23:09] *** ferreira joined
[23:09] <smash_> clean cookies

[23:09] <audreyt> errorlog is clean

[23:09] <[particle]> i just started exploder7 for the first time, cleaned cookies/cache, went to commitbit.pugscode.org (redirected to svn.pugscode.org:9999)

[23:09] <smash_> is access_log grwoing ? # just to make sure you're checking the right log

[23:10] <obra> logged in ok

[23:10] <obra> audreyt: shall I invite lwall?

[23:11] <audreyt> sure go ahead

[23:11] <[particle]> hrmm pugs project page looks very different in ie vs ff

[23:11] <[particle]> People is below License, rather than right of Pugs

[23:12] <obra> audreyt: that's throwing an error.

[23:12] <audreyt> [Wed Nov 08 00:11:54 2006] [error] [client 66.92.67.231] FastCGI: server "/data/svn/commitbit/bin/jifty" stderr: ERROR - There was a validation error for person, referer: http://svn.pugscode.org:9999/admin/project/Pugs/people

[23:12] <lambdabot> Title: Login, http://tinyurl.com/ss5yz

[23:12] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - trying now

[23:13] <audreyt> obra: so. you are not users.admin

[23:13] <audreyt> but projectmemeber.level=administrator

[23:13] <obra> indeed.

[23:13] <audreyt> obra: that is the correct permission state, no?

[23:13] <obra> looks like a logic bug in commitbit

[23:13] <obra> (haven't had a lot of experience with non-superuser metacommiters)

[23:13] <audreyt> whew.

[23:13] <obra> sorry. working

[23:13] <audreyt> k

[23:14] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - not working AFAICT

[23:15] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: as in, can't login?

[23:15] <Limbic_Region> I tried both the email addresses that I might have registered with originally and my pw that was working as of yesterday - it says I might have typed something incorrectly

[23:15] <obra> Limbic_Region: no. new url in your inbox

[23:15] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: sorry, the old pw, we can't get plaintext

[23:16] <audreyt> and md5 digest can't be made to work (yet)

[23:16] * Limbic_Region goes to check his inbox

[23:16] <obra> audreyt: I'm almost 100% positive that it's ProjectMember.pm sub create  with the wrong user.

[23:16] <audreyt> so we decided to reinvite

[23:16] <obra> but I'm falling over for lack of food

[23:16] * Limbic_Region is in a foul mood so is sorry if he is less than helpful

[23:16] <audreyt> obra: ok. I'll deal.

[23:16] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: aww.

[23:16] <obra> audreyt: thanks. sorry

[23:16] <audreyt> what happened?

[23:17] <Limbic_Region> I have no email in my inbox

[23:17] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - in a nutshell, geographic distance is making me incapable of properly taking care of someone I love and who, to a certain degree, depends on me

[23:17] <audreyt> oy. I know that feeling (only too well).

[23:18] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: I sent to the _2000 one in yahoo

[23:18] <zptao> you've done well

[23:19] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - I checked that one and my gmail to include spam folder - nada

[23:19] <Limbic_Region> can you instead try Joshua period Gatcomb at gmail ?

[23:21] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: sure. done

[23:21] <smash_> invite me too || :P j/k

[23:22] <Limbic_Region> works great

[23:22] <Limbic_Region> so I won't have to change anything in svn for a ci?

[23:22] <audreyt> provided you relocated

[23:22] <audreyt> then yes. can you try a commit?

[23:23] <Limbic_Region> sure

[23:23] <audreyt> smash_: sure. email addr?

[23:24] *** justatheory joined
[23:24] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: can you try invite [email@hidden.address] as "lwall" under "administrator" priv

[23:24] <smash_> audreyt: [email@hidden.address] (thks)

[23:24] <audreyt> in the commitbit.pugscode.org interface?

[23:25] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - will do in just a sec

[23:25] <Limbic_Region> svn ci wasn't as friendly as I had hoped

[23:26] <audreyt> smash_: done.

[23:26] <audreyt> smash_: add yourself to AUTHORS and commit?

[23:26] <Limbic_Region> I had to --username first timme

[23:26] <Limbic_Region> trying larry's commit bit now

[23:27] <Limbic_Region> seemed to work ok

[23:27] <svnbot6> r14675 | Limbic_Region++ | Added a link to perlmonks discussion on fib memoization example

[23:27] <Limbic_Region> all things back to normall

[23:27] <audreyt> good

[23:27] <audreyt> whew

[23:27] <audreyt> ok, I'll resend all the other commit bits now.

[23:27] <audreyt> thanks to all for testing :)

[23:28] <smash_> audreyt: seems to work ok

[23:28] <smash_> audreyt: err.. i don't have nothing productive to ci :/

[23:29] <audreyt> smash_: add yourself to AUTHORS

[23:29] <audreyt> then ci that

[23:29] <audreyt> welcome aboard btw :)

[23:29] <smash_> err, thks

[23:29] <smash_> let me co first

[23:30] <TimToady> Looks good.  not going to relocate till I ensure that openfoundry is synced up.

[23:30] <[particle]> ok, things working better now, but js errors on the admin/project/Pugs/people page

[23:31] <jrockway> did the repository uuid (etc.) change? if so I think you have to re-checkout

[23:31] <audreyt> jrockway: no, we preserved revnnum and uuid

[23:31] <audreyt> and all revprops

[23:31] <audreyt> with svk/util/pullyu you can do that to any repo :)

[23:31] <audreyt> basically cloning a remote repo

[23:31] <audreyt> incrementally

[23:32] <jrockway> cool!

[23:32] *** Aankhen`` joined
[23:32] <jrockway> i remember reading on the svk wiki that you had to re-checkout

[23:32] <obra> just wait until you get pushmi. Then we can play games with which repo is master and you'll never need to care

[23:32] <audreyt> yeah, pushmi and pullyu are New Technology

[23:32] <audreyt> as of this week

[23:33] <smash_> couln't you have just rsync'ed it '

[23:33] <smash_> ?

[23:34] <audreyt> and then the "k" part of "svk" will finally mean something.

[23:34] <audreyt> smash_: rsync over mounted dav?

[23:34] <audreyt> that is a curious thought, but I don't think it works that way

[23:34] <audreyt> (no, we don't have shell access on openfoundry)

[23:34] <smash_> stop everything && umount everything && run live cd && rsync to new location && mount && start everything again

[23:35] <smash_> that could work ;)

[23:35] <smash_> (or not)

[23:35] *** LimbicRegion joined
[23:36] *** LimbicRegion is now known as Limbic_Region

[23:36] <jrockway> tasty.  now forking open source projects will be easier than ever ;)

[23:36] <jrockway> no more asking people to recheckout their working copies, they can just svk relocate and "stick it to the man" ;)

[23:36] <Limbic_Region> sorry, had access issues

[23:37] <audreyt> yeah. just like All Other Modern VCS :)

[23:37] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - did you want me to help redistribute commit bits?

[23:37] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: no, I'm writing a script to do that

[23:37] <audreyt> but thanks

[23:38] <smash_> (since i'm here, lemme build pugs ;) )

[23:38] <audreyt> reinvite seems to work

[23:39] <audreyt> reinviting all admins...

[23:42] <audreyt> all admins reinvited. reviting authors...

[23:42] <obra> audreyt: what was the bug?

[23:42] <audreyt> obra: current_user_can

[23:42] <audreyt> but sorry, I'm on the brink of ENOFOOD fading

[23:42] <audreyt> so let me finish reinviting first

[23:42] *** bsb joined
[23:43] <obra> okie. I'll look for a checkin post-food

[23:43] <audreyt> I actually hardcoded it so any project admin become superuser.

[23:43] <obra> oh

[23:43] <audreyt> I mean, for the purpose of creation

[23:43] <audreyt> you wouldn't want that.

[23:43] <audreyt> but we only have 1 project

[23:43] <audreyt> so *shrug*

[23:43] <obra> nod

[23:44] <obra> "first time I need a metacommitter"

[23:44] *** cmarcelo joined
[23:44] <ingy> I got mail from audreyt

[23:44] <audreyt> good. :)

[23:45] <audreyt> all authores being spammed...

[23:45] <cmarcelo> ola. this new commitbit password is non-related to feather passwd, right?

[23:45] <obra> correct

[23:46] <audreyt> I really need to write up a faq and post to blogs and pugs homepage and p6a

[23:46] <Limbic_Region> anyone care to speculate if chromatic is taking a jab at pugs in general or its many incomplete backends at http://use.perl.org/~acme/journal/31531

[23:47] <obra> It's not worth speculating

[23:47] <Limbic_Region> you're probably right

[23:48] * Limbic_Region wanders off to cool off

[23:48] <obra> There are many ways to a running Perl 6. What's cool is that there is more than one way to do it.

[23:51] <audreyt> and I replied to apologize.

[23:52] *** ferreira left
[23:54] <Aankhen``> Oooh, interesting... ECMAScript 4...

[23:54] <Aankhen``> Oh, 2008.  Not so interesting then.

[23:54] <audreyt> "production" 2008

[23:55] <audreyt> they have part of it already rolled out in JS1.5

[23:55] <audreyt> shipped with firefox2, I think

[23:55] <Aankhen``> FF2 had JS 1.7.

[23:55] <Aankhen``> I guess full ECMAScript 4th Edition compliance is targeted at Mozilla 2.

[23:55] <clkao> audreyt: you are evil

[23:55] <audreyt> correct.

[23:55] <audreyt> clkao: hm?

[23:56] <audreyt> Aankhen``: indeed, I stand corrected :)

[23:56] <clkao> the reply. don't be evil, okay? :p

[23:56] <smash_> (this Linking ... completely trashes my laptop)

[23:57] <Aankhen``> audreyt: Nah, you were right, you just got the minor number wrong.

[23:57] * Aankhen`` wonders why Mozilla still uses CVS.

[23:58] *** audreyt changes topic to: svn switch --relocate http://svn.openfoundry.org/ http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/ | run.pugscode.org | spec.pugscode.org | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com

[23:58] <Aankhen``> Habit?

[23:58] <audreyt> probably.

[23:59] <eviltwin_b> commitbit received

[23:59] <Aankhen``> I guess it might be difficult to convert the entire repository into an SVN repository.

