[00:00] <TimToady> It's also possible that not many folks read p6c.

[00:00] <dduncan> one detail I put forth that would help for more discussion is where and what nature the test harness would go

[00:00] <TimToady> compared to p6l

[00:00] <dduncan> true

[00:00] <dduncan> I could post it to p6l, but audrey suggested p6c

[00:01] <TimToady> p6c is probably sufficient public notice before the bulldozers move in to tear up the wetlands.  :)

[00:02] <dduncan> on a related note, at some point the test suite should be moved to a different repository-project from pugs, if reasonable, just as the perl 6 specs are already separate

[00:03] <TimToady> some of 'em

[00:03] <TimToady> I like having S29 still under pugs for now

[00:03] <dduncan> the idea is that people's experience with SVN layouts somewhat matches the CPAN distros

[00:04] <dduncan> eg, someone sees a distro, they can find a SVN that more or less matches it

[00:04] <TimToady> and anything else that's primarily still implementation driven

[00:04] <dduncan> of course, the SVN separation can happen later ... it is the CPAN separation thats more important short term

[00:04] <merlyn> TimToady - dunno if you saw the scrollback about sub vs multi sub

[00:05] <TimToady> perhaps we need to distinguish pugs from pugs

[00:06] <TimToady> yeah, still thinking about it.

[00:06] *** surfdue joined
[00:06] <surfdue> what is this?

[00:06] <dduncan> what are you?

[00:06] <merlyn> a channel for people building perl6

[00:06] <surfdue> interesting

[00:06] <merlyn> yeah, what are you? :)

[00:06] <surfdue> so a new version of perl

[00:06] <surfdue> or a fork?

[00:07] <merlyn> if you have to ask, this may not be the place for you. :)

[00:07] <surfdue> im the freenode magical flying pixie horse

[00:07] <surfdue> I go around and check our random channels

[00:07] <TimToady> we don't think this is a very random channel, except when it is.

[00:07] *** surfdue is now known as MagicalFlyingPix

[00:07] <MagicalFlyingPix> ..

[00:08] <MagicalFlyingPix> TimToady, it is when I have never been here

[00:08] <MagicalFlyingPix> *POOF* you are now in /list

[00:08] <MagicalFlyingPix> happy channel list-b-day!

[00:08] *** MagicalFlyingPix is now known as surfdue

[00:08] <surfdue> :P

[00:10] <dduncan> so does that mean #perl6 will show up on http://freenode.net/primary_groups.shtml now?

[00:10] <lambdabot> Title: "Primary Groups"

[00:10] <surfdue> maybe

[00:10] <surfdue> *POOF*

[00:10] * surfdue disappears 

[00:10] <dduncan> well it ought to ... considering this is a major place for stuff to happen

[00:11] <surfdue> you iseth correct young master.

[00:11] *** prefiks left
[00:11] *** bennymack joined
[00:13] *** bennymack is now known as bennymack[linuxn

[00:14] *** bennymack[linuxn is now known as bennymack

[00:14] <surfdue> bennymack you mispelled linux

[00:14] <dduncan> I will defer further t/ changes for the moment, as the fate of Test.pm partly determines how it will organize

[00:14] <dduncan> and because I should really get to $job stuff

[00:15] <surfdue>  anyways, if there is anyone in here that codes perl (thats a givey), and has time on there hands (another givey), and would like to help code a new upload filesharing site. Please feel free to ask questions

[00:16] <merlyn> surfdue - highly inappropriate in this channel

[00:16] <merlyn> just for future reference

[00:17] <surfdue> ok

[00:17] <merlyn> it's like walking into a car factory design meeting and saying "anyone have a used car here?"

[00:17] <surfdue> merlyn, ive talked to you before :)

[00:17] <surfdue> merlyn, i do that all the time over at ford ?

[00:17] <merlyn> whether they do or not, it's the wrong place to ask

[00:24] <gaal> dduncan: ping

[00:25] <obra>  

[00:25] <bennymack> hi everybody. I'm here because I was pulled into Perl6's Reality Distortion Field at YAPC

[00:25] <bennymack> i'm interested in trying it out. If I get the 6.2.12 will it have the features that Larry and Damian talked about?

[00:25] <TimToady> welcome to the madhouse

[00:25] <bennymack> *new features

[00:26] <TimToady> don't remember what we talked about.  :)

[00:26] <TimToady> any particular ones you care to name?

[00:26] <bennymack> one sec

[00:27] <bennymack> the argument objects for example

[00:28] <TimToady> ?eval \(1,2,3)

[00:28] <evalbot_11274> [1, 2, 3]

[00:28] <bennymack> I wish I had that presentation: Perl6 The Final Ascent

[00:28] <TimToady> they're still probably partially implemented

[00:28] <TimToady> most things having to do with objects are getting a refactor after 6.2.12.

[00:29] <gaal> bennymack: Captures will probably be available in the next release

[00:29] <gaal> we're working on refactoring the internals a bit, which is a prerequisite.

[00:29] <TimToady> on the other hand, 6.2.12 is just the Haskell implementation, and a lot of the exciting stuff is going on with v6.pm nowadays.

[00:30] <TimToady> which bypasses the Haskell and compiles down to Perl 5.

[00:30] <bennymack> TimToady: ahh I was wondering about that too. Thanks!

[00:31] <dduncan> as I've also said, my current prediction is that v6.pm will be the first Perl 6 implementation ready for production use

[00:31] <gaal> dduncan: re: tests, a few thoughts.

[00:31] <merlyn> I'm not sure how, unless you move a lot more functionality into perl5

[00:31] <TimToady> mmm, depending on how you define "ready for production".

[00:31] <dduncan> and/or used in production

[00:31] <TimToady> my guess is that it will be pretty darn slow.

[00:31] <gaal> first, please let's not call it certification :)

[00:31] <merlyn> the mismatch between perl6 semantics and perl5 semantics will kill ya

[00:31] <TimToady> at least to begin with.

[00:32] <dduncan> merlyn, have you looked at audrey's tower?

[00:32] <merlyn> yup

[00:32] <merlyn> but there are fundamental hamming principles at work

[00:32] <gaal> second, obra's company is putting some effort into abstracting out the testing tools to a reusable perl 5 smoke system

[00:32] <gaal> it's still in development, but I've seen it and it's looking good.

[00:32] <dduncan> sure it will be slow at first, but it should be functional and useful in the real world

[00:32] <merlyn> there's no amount of code I can type as a human at perl5 to make it do everything perl6 will do

[00:32] <SamB> hamming principles...

[00:32] <SamB> hmm.

[00:32] <merlyn> which means you have to emulate the perl6 world for some operations

[00:33] <dduncan> why is that merlyn?

[00:33] * SamB trys to find a really really bad pun...

[00:33] <merlyn> which means slow, and possibly bandwidth mismatches to handle the translations

[00:33] <dduncan> Perl 6 is being implemented over other things that probably didn't do what it does

[00:33] <merlyn> Well - the perl6 world is emulated on haskell

[00:33] <merlyn> this is why it's slow. :)

[00:34] <merlyn> and parrot is being build so that the perl6 world is correctly inside of it

[00:34] <merlyn> that's why it will be faster

[00:34] <gaal> they've been developing it with their needs in mind, which aren't precisely a p6 compiler's needs, but the overlap between them (as well as $random_perl_project) are pretty big, so there's great potential for happiness

[00:34] <dduncan> yes

[00:34] <merlyn> but targeting perl6 to java-vm probably would bite

[00:34] <merlyn> because you'd have to build an emulated perl6 world in java

[00:34] <dduncan> parrot will be faster, but v6 will be ready earlier to do real work with, is my prediction

[00:34] <merlyn> for the parts of perl6 that are not exceeding the semantics of Perl5, sure

[00:35] <TimToady> for problems where correctness is more important than speed, sure.

[00:35] <dduncan> initially thats fine for me

[00:35] <merlyn> and vice versa, yes

[00:35] <gaal> dduncan: most of t/ doesn't contain much pugsisms

[00:35] <dduncan> my initial use of Perl 6 will be mostly as syntactic sugar

[00:35] <dduncan> anyway

[00:35] <merlyn> syntactic brown whole sugar. :)

[00:36] <dduncan> incidentally, I wonder if a Pair type is being backported to bleadperl5, like a few other things are backported ... that would be useful

[00:36] <TimToady> I think we'll see a certain amount of P5-ish looking P6 code in the interests of mapping more directly to the P5 engine.

[00:36] <dduncan> that's how I will code initially

[00:36] <merlyn> right

[00:36] <gaal> re: splitting the release, I'm not sure it's time, just yet, since no project passes any reasonable percent of the test suite except pugs yet

[00:37] <TimToady> but MMD is gonna be an interesting optimization problem.

[00:37] <gaal> but I'm sure now that Test.pm + 01-sanity/ passes on v6, this well get a lot better fast

[00:37] <TimToady> I'm not suggesting splitting the releast that way, just that the word

[00:37] <dduncan> gaal, I don't see that as a problem

[00:37] <TimToady> "pugs" means two different things right now.

[00:37] <SamB> does it mean a kind of dogs?

[00:37] <obra> having a make target to package the test suite could be very cool.

[00:38] <TimToady> It's referring both to the Haskell project and the larger umbrella project that is not necessarily in Haskell.

[00:38] <gaal> obra: echo "testbundle:\n\ttar czvf p6-test.tgz t" >> Makefile :)

[00:38] <TimToady> Maybe the Haskell Pugs should be rename Hugs or something.

[00:38] <SamB> the name is a pretty clear reference to hugs, fwiw...

[00:39] <SamB> hugs is already taken, TimToady ;-)

[00:39] * obra grins at gaal

[00:39] * bennymack is installing v6 now

[00:39] *** surfdue left
[00:39] <TimToady> Phugs.

[00:39] <TimToady> pughs.

[00:39] <SamB> oooh

[00:39] <obra> At least with phugs, it would have theme music

[00:39] <SamB> second one is better

[00:39] <TimToady> phughs

[00:40] <gaal> gotta go &

[00:40] <dduncan> a lot of my like of Perl 6 is just its improved well-thought syntax, the big features are nice too

[00:40] <dduncan> and the little things help a lot too, like the Pair type

[00:40] <TimToady> .thanks for @Larry;

[00:41] <TimToady> well, I'm being called to go grill some poor defenseless kielbasa...

[00:41] <dduncan> cook them until they don't cry no more, right?

[00:42] <TimToady> I just don't want to know what they're made out of.

[00:42] <TimToady> Later &

[00:42] <bennymack> it seems like it would be difficult to get a lot of minds on the haskell wagon

[00:48] <dduncan> ping gaal

[00:48] *** Jedai joined
[00:48] <Jedai> Hello

[00:48] <dduncan> please reply on p6c what you said about my tests suggestoin

[00:49] <dduncan> if obra's company is doing something that my suggestion may duplicate, please say so there for the benefit of others

[00:49] <bennymack> so i'm installing v6 and it seems like the requirements are the same as the YAPC talk schedule

[00:49] <dduncan> hehe

[00:49] <audreyt> rofl

[00:49] <dduncan> coptor

[00:49] <obra> dduncan: we're building a generalized smoke testing infrastructure

[00:50] <obra> that works well for projects in svn repositories

[00:50] <dduncan> so, that will accomplish what I mention on p6c, where the tests are distributed separately from pugs and v6 on cpan?

[00:50] <obra> it's not a packaging or distribution system.

[00:50] <obra> url to your pc6 post?

[00:50] <obra> p6c

[00:50] <dduncan> its the last one

[00:50] <audreyt> http://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.perl6.compiler/1434

[00:50] <lambdabot> Title: "nntp.perl.org - perl.perl6.compiler (1434)"

[00:51] <dduncan> yes, thats it

[00:51] <audreyt> dduncan: I think separate svn is largely orthogonal

[00:51] <audreyt> it means one more commit-bit arrangement

[00:51] <dduncan> yes, I agree ... see the post

[00:52] <Jedai> ?eval "Hello world !".reverse.reverse.say;

[00:52] <dduncan> I quote: As to whether any of the above are still maintained within Pugs SVN or moved to separate SVN, that is a possibly orthogonal matter.

[00:52] <evalbot_11274> OUTPUT[! dlrow olleH ] Bool::True

[00:52] <obra> dduncan: I think it's the bit between () that we're doing

[00:52] <audreyt> so I'd prefer even radical reorganization of the tree to actual split svn

[00:52] <dduncan> second-last paragraph

[00:52] <obra> I think that moving the tests out of pugs svn would be a bad plan

[00:52] <obra> the tests are successful because they're so close to the code with the most hackers.

[00:53] <dduncan> well, as I said, its the appearance of being completely separate on CPAN that I consider important

[00:53] <obra> why is the appearance important?

[00:53] <audreyt> dduncan: I agree very much.

[00:53] <obra> The availability is important.

[00:53] <dduncan> I think it should be possible for one to download just v6.pm and the Perl 6 tests, without downloading anything pugs-specific

[00:53] <audreyt> separate cpan distros that multiple other cpan distros can depend on = very important

[00:53] <audreyt> yes.

[00:53] <dduncan> but the focus of my post is on what CPAN users see, not developers

[00:54] <audreyt> yes.

[00:54] <dduncan> everything can stay in the same SVN

[00:54] <audreyt> dduncan: so write t/Makefile.PL :)

[00:54] <obra> audreyt: gaal did a page ago ;)

[00:54] <audreyt> we also need a reflection API that moves utils/run-smoke.p into the t::

[00:54] <audreyt> obra: that isn't a cpan dist

[00:54] <obra> audreyt: fair enough

[00:54] <audreyt> and basically say "run these *installed* test suite using this impl"

[00:54] <audreyt> i.e. the v6::tests will have the tests somewhere in sharedir

[00:55] <audreyt> using Module::Install::Share

[00:55] <audreyt> installed into sitelib

[00:56] <audreyt> dduncan: where are you based in the meatspace, and will you be at OSCON or some other conf?

[00:56] <Jedai> ?eval "abc".reverse.reverse.say; my Str $s = "abc"; $s.reverse; $s.say; $s.reverse; $s.say;

[00:56] <evalbot_11274> OUTPUT[cba abc abc ] Bool::True

[00:56] <obra> dduncan: http://svn.bestpractical.com/cgi-bin/index.cgi/bps/browse/Test-Chimps/trunk/ is what we've been up to

[00:56] <lambdabot> Title: "browse: /bps/Test-Chimps/trunk/ (Rev: HEAD, via SVN::Web)"

[00:56] <dduncan> audreyt, I would love to be at various conferences, but I can't afford the $currency at the moment

[00:56] <audreyt> Jedai: .= reverse

[00:57] <wolverian> ?eval "abc".reverse.reverse

[00:57] <evalbot_11274> ("cba",)

[00:57] <Jedai> Yes but I was most intrigued by the .reverse.reverse ?

[00:57] <wolverian> that looks strangeish

[00:57] <wolverian> :)

[00:57] <Jedai> (my other test were just to check if it was in place)

[00:58] <dduncan> I figure late this year or next year should be a different story though

[00:58] <audreyt> Jedai: what's your email addr?

[00:58] <Jedai> chaddai.fouche@ens-lyon.fr

[00:58] <svnbot6> r11324 | audreyt++ | * fix "foo".reverse.reverse to return "foo" by declaring

[00:58] <svnbot6> r11324 | audreyt++ |   that reverse's scalar form always return a string, not a list.

[00:58] <svnbot6> r11324 | audreyt++ |   Spotted by Jedai++.

[00:58] <audreyt> Jedai: can I send you a commit bit and for you to commit that test into t/builtins/strings/reverse.t?

[00:58] <audreyt> oh good. also add yourselve to AUTHORS. commit bit sent

[00:59] <Jedai> Thanks

[00:59] <Jedai> I'll do it :)

[00:59] <audreyt> yay :)

[00:59] <cognominal> Jedai, are you in contact with the Lyon mongers?

[01:00] <Jedai> Not yet but I plan to (next year as I'm not in Lyon right now)

[01:00] <dduncan> audreyt, the answer to the other part of your question ... I am within meatspace at Victoria, BC

[01:01] <cognominal> Jedai: Lyon will orgainize either the european yapc or the French Perl workshop in 2007

[01:02] <Jedai> Wow :D At least one YAPC I won't miss !

[01:02] <cognominal> probably the second because Vienna has an headstart for YAPC 2007

[01:02] <audreyt> dduncan: oh, you're in .ca?

[01:02] <dduncan> yes

[01:03] <audreyt> cool. maybe I'll visit .bc.ca next year

[01:03] <Jedai> cognominal, you're in the Lyon mongers ?

[01:03] <dduncan> pacific ocean, 48th parallel

[01:03] <merlyn> the land I cannot enter.

[01:03] <audreyt> yes, the land forbidden to merlyn

[01:03] <dduncan> merlyn, why not?

[01:03] <merlyn> you don't let felons enter canada

[01:03] <dduncan> last I recall, Canada was easier to enter than the US

[01:03] <cognominal> no, I am in Paris suburb (Arcueil) so I am part of the parisian mongueurs

[01:03] <merlyn> well - I'm in the US, so that's not a problem to go to the US. :)

[01:04] <cognominal> rgs (a perl5 pumpking) works in Paris. He is divorced and visit his kids at Lyon almpst every WE

[01:04] <merlyn> but the previous 4 YAPCs have been alternatingly (a) in canada or (b) during a geekcruise

[01:04] <merlyn> which is why this was my first YAPC since 19101

[01:04] <dduncan> as I recall, no YAPCs take place on the west coast of NA, because OSCON is in the general area

[01:05] <dduncan> hence there are no conferences that are both cheap for me to attend and travel to

[01:05] <merlyn> No - it's just that nobody pitches it

[01:05] <dduncan> really?

[01:05] <merlyn> yeah, it's not "vs oscon"

[01:05] <merlyn> it's a different market

[01:05] <merlyn> oscon is no longer a perl conference

[01:05] <merlyn> yapc is

[01:05] <dduncan> so Larry's not giving his onion there any more?

[01:05] <merlyn> He will

[01:05] <TimToady> ?eval my Str $s = "abc"; $s.=reverse; $s.say; $s.=reverse; $s.say;

[01:06] <evalbot_11274> Error:  unexpected "=" expecting ".", subroutine name, array subscript, hash subscript or code subscript

[01:06] <merlyn> O'Reilly makes a token nod toward perl

[01:06] <merlyn> but that's not OSCON's major player any more

[01:06] <audreyt> ?eval "abc".reverse.reverse

[01:06] <evalbot_11274> ("cba",)

[01:06] <merlyn> why the extra comma?

[01:06] <obra> dduncan: iirc, there's a free conference organized around oscon

[01:07] <obra> and 80% of the value to an active perl hacker is the hallway track, which is free ;)

[01:07] <merlyn> yeah, there's another os "con" near oscon

[01:07] <audreyt> merlyn: it's a bug. and fixed

[01:07] <merlyn> ahh

[01:07] <audreyt> merlyn: evalbot_11275 will have it right

[01:07] <audreyt> (it's currently rebuilding on feather)

[01:07] <audreyt> ?eval my Str $s = "abc"; $s .=reverse; $s.say; $s .=reverse; $s.say;

[01:07] <merlyn> heh - you broke it. :)

[01:07] <audreyt> hm, someone renamed evalbot helper.

[01:07] <audreyt> that must be dduncan++ :)

[01:07] * audreyt goes rerun the helper

[01:08] <dduncan> it is very possible

[01:08] <TimToady> prolly me.

[01:08] <dduncan> there may be the odd file name ref / file name or shebang or whatever that got out of sync

[01:08] <merlyn> Hmm. I still need to hack at a linuxmag column

[01:09] * merlyn wanders back to #perl

[01:09] <dduncan> brb

[01:09] <TimToady> I distinctly remember renaming an evalbot.p6 to evalbot.pl

[01:09] <audreyt> it's TimToady++ then :)

[01:09] *** fglock joined
[01:10] <TimToady> I even fessed up to it at the time on #perl6, but nobody was listening...

[01:11] <audreyt> I'm still amazed that the entire renaming happened practically overnight

[01:11] *** Jedai joined
[01:11] <audreyt> would easily take me weeks to do it :)

[01:11] <TimToady> audreyt: you are not a good liar.

[01:12] <audreyt> no, seriously. I'll be distracted massively

[01:12] <audreyt> and wander off to write some sort of automator

[01:12] <audreyt> and then hack svk

[01:12] <audreyt> etc etc.

[01:12] <obra> "as it renames, it programmatically transforms the code"

[01:12] <audreyt> yes.

[01:12] <audreyt> since that was what I was about to do :)

[01:12] <TimToady> yes, but the problem of automating it would have fascinated you sufficiently that you'd evenutally have something that would do it in 5 minutes

[01:13] <audreyt> yeah, but the "eventually" can take weeks

[01:13] <dduncan> audreyt, the actual file renames I did manually, with the help of Spotlight to find the files

[01:14] <dduncan> the references inside the files were the easy part ...

[01:14] <bennymack> ok, here's my first p6 noob question. sorry for the 2 line paste

[01:14] <bennymack> ben@slaqfu:~$ perl -Mv6 -e 'for 1,2,3 -> $x { say $x }'

[01:14] <bennymack> Perl v6.0.0 required--this is only v5.8.4, stopped.

[01:14] <dduncan> my text editor, BBEdit, has built-in abilities to search and replace, with regexps, on whole folders of files

[01:14] <TimToady> yeah, well, the strengths of this community are in recognition of the multiplicative results of including both ADD and Autistic roles.

[01:15] <dduncan> I never wrote any actual script to do those 500 or 300 shebang line changes at once

[01:15] <dduncan> but each actual file rename I did one at a time

[01:15] <dduncan> and TimToady helped with those

[01:15] <audreyt> bennymack: we are still trying to find a way to make -Mv6 -e work

[01:15] <audreyt> it's... nontrivial

[01:16] <audreyt> as at -M time, it still doesn't see -e yet

[01:16] <TimToady> well, we tend toward the autistic side of the typeset...

[01:16] <dduncan> but audreyt, I can understand the idea of being distracted from such a task when you see something else to work on

[01:16] <bennymack> ok thanks

[01:16] <TimToady> tchrist always claimed I have "task switching deficit disorder"

[01:16] <audreyt> bennymack: here is workaround:

[01:16] <audreyt> perl `perldoc -l v6` -e 'for 1,2,3 -> $x { say $x }'

[01:17] <dduncan> similarly, I have a lot of difficulty in multitasking

[01:17] <audreyt> but it's so wrong. better ideas welcome :)

[01:17] <TimToady> tracking 3 or 4 conversations at once on IRC is a growth action for me...

[01:17] <audreyt> installing bin/v6-alpha is one way to do it

[01:17] <audreyt> but I wonder if there's some other way.

[01:18] <bennymack> hoohoo ouch

[01:18] <bennymack> time perl v6.pm -e 'for 1,2,3 -> $x { say $x }'

[01:18] <bennymack> real    0m11.426s

[01:18] <audreyt> well, it gets faster if you save it to a file :)

[01:18] <audreyt> echo 'use v6-alpha;' > test.pl

[01:18] <audreyt> echo 'for 1,2,3 -> $x { say $x }' >> test.pl

[01:18] <audreyt> time perl test.pl

[01:18] <audreyt> time perl test.pl

[01:19] <audreyt> to see the difference

[01:19] <audreyt> it's currently slow because the parser is still using backtracking regexes

[01:19] <audreyt> which, from first-hand experience, I know it's a bad idea

[01:19] <audreyt> fglock is converting it to use non-backtracking :ratchet :)

[01:20] <audreyt> bennymack: and help is always welcome -- if you like hacking regexes, that is. want a commit bit? :)

[01:21] <bennymack> audreyt: I must admit I'm not good at regexes

[01:21] <fglock> I'm trying to document the file structure, to help people help

[01:22] <audreyt> fglock++

[01:22] *** ludan joined
[01:22] * audreyt goes downstairs to try to locate dinner

[01:25] <markstos> fglock: What should be done if we notice something is broken, when there is currently a lot of tests that are known not to pass? I don't suppose adding another failing test helps in that case. For example, in the recent CPAN releases, hashes aren't parsed: my %h = ( a => 'b' );

[01:28] <fglock> markstos: adding simple tests to v6/t helps the development - it helps to sort out what is more important to implement next

[01:29] <audreyt> merlyn: also, for perl4ish things like this, consider simply writing more 01-sanity/ tests

[01:29] <audreyt> er sorry

[01:29] <audreyt> markstos: also, for perl4ish things like this, consider simply writing more 01-sanity/ tests

[01:29] <audreyt> basically what fglock said

[01:30] <fglock> another option is to add t/02-sanity to pugs/t - what are the most basic things that should be supported

[01:31] <fglock> after we get Test.pm running

[01:31] <markstos> So in other words, if I squeak with a test, I might get some some grease?

[01:32] <markstos> "The squeaky wheel gets the grease".

[01:32] <fglock> and then you can help make the test pass too

[01:32] <audreyt> hm

[01:32] <markstos> fglock: For that, I might wait for your docs about how to help people help.

[01:32] * audreyt tries a trick

[01:32] <audreyt> fglock: I think one way to do this is to list the tests to import in MANIFEST

[01:33] <audreyt> and for Makefile.PL to parse that

[01:33] <audreyt> and copy from ../../t/ when needed

[01:33] <audreyt> if you think it's sane I'll go ahead and do it

[01:33] *** justatheory joined
[01:33] <fglock> audreyt: sure

[01:33] <markstos> audreyt: makes sense to me.

[01:34] <fglock> audreyt: how about to use p5 Test.pm for the basic installation?

[01:34] <markstos> unless there is a way to use the existing SKIP/TODO tricks to declare what might pass for v6 or not.

[01:34] <audreyt> fglock: sure

[01:34] <audreyt> markstos: dduncan was thinking that a "capability" flag is the way to do it

[01:35] <dduncan> hello

[01:36] <markstos> audreyt: To somehow declare what the implementation is capable of?

[01:36] <audreyt> markstos: yeah.

[01:36] <audreyt> it's a bit fuzzy though.

[01:37] <markstos> If using SKIP/TODO environment variables allows you to skip/todo tests within a test file, it be better for the finer granularity.

[01:37] <markstos> s/it be/it might be/

[01:37] <obra> killall -SIGFOOD audreyt

[01:37] <markstos> I must admit I haven't looked at how SKIP and TODO can be manipulated in Perl6 much.

[01:38] <dduncan> within the current t/ ...

[01:38] <dduncan> I was thinking that sanity-1 should not use any modules at all, meaning the last one is moved out

[01:39] <dduncan> then sanity-2 tests that Test.pm works and/or the language features that Test.pm requires to run

[01:39] <fglock> markstos: see the v6 tests for simple SKIP and TODO, implemented with try and eval

[01:39] <dduncan> then after that are tests for features that Test.pm doesn't require to run

[01:40] <markstos> fglock: OK.

[01:40] <dduncan> otoh, it appears that 01-sanity is already testing what Test.pm requires

[01:40] <audreyt> I checked non-working Makefile.PL

[01:40] <audreyt> please carry on

[01:41] <audreyt> but I'd prefer 02-basic over 02-sanity if possible

[01:41] <svnbot6> r11325 | audreyt++ | * v6 Makefile.PL + MANFEST hack to copy t/ -- work in progress

[01:41] <dduncan> but of course

[01:41] <dduncan> I will add it now

[01:41] <fglock> what's a good filename for the hacking docs - is HACKING ok?

[01:41] <audreyt> sure

[01:42] <dduncan> actually, is 01-sanity even a good name ... should that be renamed?

[01:42] <audreyt> Test.pm has its own tests

[01:42] <audreyt> under ext/

[01:42] <dduncan> yes

[01:42] <dduncan> but those should be run after 01-sanity and before everything else

[01:42] <audreyt> in any case, I think cherrypicking tests from t/ for v6 is maybe more interesting...

[01:43] <audreyt> dduncan: the thing is that if it's testing "what Test.pm requires"

[01:43] <audreyt> then by default you can't use test.pm to test it

[01:43] <audreyt> so I still wonder what's 02 for :)

[01:43] <dduncan> yes

[01:43] <audreyt> but in any case... feel free to try and see

[01:43] <dduncan> but 01-sanity doesn't use Test.pm

[01:43] <audreyt> I need to dinner now before obra and/or nothingmuch kills me

[01:43] * audreyt waves - bbiab

[01:47] <svnbot6> r11326 | fglock++ | v6 - base HACKING file

[01:50] <Jedai> ?eval 'Ë'.ord

[01:56] <TimToady> er, looks like we distracted Audrey at the wrong time...

[01:56] <TimToady> the larrybot returns 203 for that.

[02:02] <svnbot6> r11329 | Darren_Duncan++ | added t/02-test-pm/ which consolidates tests for Test.pm itself ... t/01-sanity/08-test.t became 0-compile.t, all of ext/Test/t/* was otherwise copied in ... I didn't yet remove the copies under ext/Test/t, pending whether or not it is a good idea

[02:04] <svnbot6> r11330 | fglock++ | v6 - HACKING - most files explained

[02:07] <markstos> thanks, flock.

[02:12] *** fglock joined
[02:14] <spinclad> dduncan: considering Test (the harness, iiuc) as a separate CPAN module from the test suite, it needs its own test suite within its distro tree.  i would think ext/Test/t needs to stay where it is.

[02:16] *** evalbot_11330 joined
[02:21] <dduncan> so I will leave it there

[02:22] <audreyt> dduncan: re t_pugs

[02:22] <dduncan> but the same tests are also useful to run among the normal Perl 6 tests

[02:22] <audreyt> why no t/run/ ?

[02:22] <audreyt> and then change ./pugs to $*EXECUTABLE_NAME in the tests

[02:22] <dduncan> the idea here was that t_pugs contained contained tests only applicable to Pugs

[02:22] <svnbot6> r11331 | fglock++ | v6 - HACKING update

[02:23] <dduncan> or do those arguments work with v6 et al too?

[02:23] <dduncan> or should work

[02:23] <audreyt> other than -C and -B

[02:23] <audreyt> which is indeed questionable

[02:23] <audreyt> I think they should eventually all work

[02:23] <audreyt> a perl that doesn't support -e or -M or -I

[02:24] <audreyt> is... probably not good for interchangeable deployment.

[02:24] <dduncan> well, that was a rough cut, things can be moved more

[02:24] <dduncan> the idea is that Pugs probaby has a small handful of tests specific to it, which go in t_pugs/

[02:24] <dduncan> those that are generic go in t/

[02:24] <dduncan> I don't know enough about the details yet to decide which go where

[02:25] <audreyt> I think I'll first move them back to t/invocation

[02:25] <audreyt> and then work out which ones are indeed not universal

[02:25] <dduncan> sounds good

[02:25] <dduncan> so then, t_pugs/ will just be an empty folder for now

[02:25] <audreyt> and also it hurts autocompletion

[02:25] <dduncan> but an existing folder

[02:25] <audreyt> I'd much prefer t/implementation-specific/pugs

[02:25] <audreyt> or something along that line

[02:26] <dduncan> if that works out

[02:26] <dduncan> the thought I had was that t/ as a whole could become the test-only distro

[02:26] <dduncan> and presumably a test-only distro shouldn't know anything about specifics of individual implementations

[02:27] <audreyt> that I agree.

[02:27] <dduncan> except that individuals can influence the structure of the generic framework

[02:27] <svnbot6> r11332 | audreyt++ | * move t_pugs/invocation back to t/run/.

[02:27] <dduncan> to better accommodate them

[02:27] <audreyt> I'd argue your notion of t_pugs should always be empty

[02:27] <audreyt> if there's something ./pugs can do that cannot be expressed as a capability

[02:28] <audreyt> then we need to add some declaration to say that capability

[02:28] <dduncan> so then just remove t_pugs/

[02:28] <audreyt> already done

[02:28] <audreyt> but I agree the name "pugs" should not appear anywhere in the t/ hierarchy names

[02:29] <audreyt> dduncan:++

[02:29] <audreyt> dduncan++

[02:29] <dduncan> since you removed the whole dir, refs to it in docs need updating ...

[02:31] <audreyt> also t/bugs

[02:31] <svnbot6> r11333 | fglock++ | v6 - HACKING - "Implementing new syntax"

[02:31] <audreyt> is misnamed

[02:31] <audreyt> obra suggests t/uncategorized

[02:31] <audreyt> which is good. I'll do the mv.

[02:32] <dduncan> I know that t/bugs needs to be broken up, but on short notice it was better than t/pugsbugs

[02:33] <audreyt> Juerd: may we remove t/Dialects/ ? I think it's now better suited to a module that implemnts those dialects, should one exist

[02:33] <fglock> please let me know if there is something more I should write in HACKING - it's just the basics right now

[02:35] <audreyt> dduncan: yeah, lookat the passing ones especially in  t/xx-uncategorized/ and sort them -- that'd be wonderful too

[02:36] <audreyt> ?eval "reverse".reversed.reversed

[02:36] *** evalbot_11330 is now known as evalbot_11333

[02:36] <evalbot_11333> Error: No such method in class Any: "&reversed"

[02:36] <audreyt> ?eval "reverse".reverse.reverse

[02:36] <svnbot6> r11334 | audreyt++ | * rename t/bugs to t/xx-uncategorized.

[02:36] <evalbot_11333> "reverse"

[02:37] *** play9999 joined
[02:41] <Jedai> :)

[02:46] *** miyagawa joined
[02:51] <svnbot6> r11335 | fglock++ | v6 - HACKING - all files are described; copyright/license

[02:51] <svnbot6> r11336 | Darren_Duncan++ | brought lib/Pugs/Doc/Hack.pod and some other docs up to date with changes to t/ et al ... other parts of Hack.pod still need updating

[02:52] <dduncan> it occurs to me that lib/Pugs/Doc/Hack.pod has stuff that wasn't true since 2005 ... I will address the obvious parts now

[03:15] <nothingmuch> has anybody seen my card reader?

[03:16] <spinclad> ?eval "reverse".reverse.reverse.reverse

[03:16] *** evalbot_11333 is now known as evalbot_11337

[03:16] <evalbot_11337> "esrever"

[03:16] <obra> I haven't :/ what style is it?

[03:17] <nothingmuch> obra: usb, cf (no others)

[03:19] <nothingmuch> it's gray

[03:19] <nothingmuch> i think it's by fuji

[03:19] <nothingmuch> hmm

[03:19] <obra> nod. I'll keep m,y eyes open

[03:19] <nothingmuch> okay

[03:19] <nothingmuch> thaks

[03:19] <nothingmuch> *n

[03:25] <nothingmuch> found it

[03:25] <nothingmuch> well, remembered where I lost it =)

[03:27] <nothingmuch> obra: do you have windows in any form on your macbook?

[03:28] <obra>    yes

[03:28] <obra> XP in parallels

[03:28] <nothingmuch> hmm wait

[03:28] <nothingmuch> i think autostitch may have a mac version by now

[03:29] <nothingmuch> oh, nope

[03:29] *** xdg joined
[03:29] <nothingmuch> anyway, i'm going to import the NEF raw images, and exports jpegs for the panoramas... can you run it for me?

[03:30] <obra> sure.

[03:30] <obra> url?

[03:30] <nothingmuch> http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~mbrown/autostitch/autostitch.html

[03:30] <lambdabot> Title: "AutoStitch"

[03:30] <nothingmuch> (awesome software, btw, too bad it isn't opensource)

[03:32] <obra> tell me when i cna get images

[03:33] <obra> looks like http://www.kekus.com/download/index.html calico is the mac version

[03:33] <lambdabot> Title: "Kekus Digital - Panorama Tools for OS X :: Download"

[03:35] <nothingmuch> obra: will do. is it free?

[03:35] <nothingmuch> nevermind, checking right now

[03:35] <nothingmuch> god aperture can kill a computer

[03:37] <nothingmuch> <3 UV filters

[03:38] <nothingmuch> the pictures look far less hazy then reality did

[03:48] <markstos> I'm starting to pick up where audreyt left off on the Pugs-Compiler-Perl6/Makefile.PL refactor. In particular, I'm removing the test files that are now being copied over from the main test tree as part of "perl Makefile.PL"

[03:52] *** diotalevi joined
[03:52] <nothingmuch> ola diotalevi

[03:52] <diotalevi> Hi.

[03:52] <diotalevi> I hoped I'd just run into you.

[03:52] <diotalevi> Lucky me.

[03:52] <nothingmuch> if i told you you had a beautiful  body, would you hold it against me?

[03:54] <diotalevi> Heh. You ask so nicely.

[03:55] <diotalevi> So what kind of format is that Module-Compile/t/fold_blocks.t thing written in?

[03:55] <diotalevi> I'd write a failing test for it but he didn't write it in any perly language.

[03:56] * nothingmuch is guessing Test::Base

[03:56] <nothingmuch> checking

[03:56] <nothingmuch> yes

[03:56] <nothingmuch> basically

[03:56] <nothingmuch> test base is data driven testing

[03:56] <nothingmuch> === Fold a heredoc whilst preserving ~s is the test case

[03:56] <diotalevi> Yay lisp?

[03:56] <nothingmuch> --- perl is the type of test

[03:57] <nothingmuch> it also contains the input

[03:57] <nothingmuch> oh wait

[03:57] <nothingmuch> filters({ perl => 'process' });

[03:57] <nothingmuch> no_diff;

[03:57] <nothingmuch> run_is perl => 'folded';

[03:58] <nothingmuch> that's the part that determines how things are tested

[03:58] <nothingmuch> --- perl and --- folded are just the fields

[03:58] <diotalevi> I wish this stuff were written in something sane.

[03:59] <nothingmuch> it filters the perl entry of every test record with the process method, and then tells Test::Base to run_is (That is make sure that is( process( $entry->{perl} ), $entry->{folded} );

[03:59] <nothingmuch> foreach my $entry split_it_according_to_ingy_rules(<DATA>) )

[03:59] <nothingmuch> it makes sense in a very ensugared kind of way

[03:59] <nothingmuch> i think the block folding is there to make sure that source filters that don't care about heredocs, comments, etc get these magic hex strings

[04:00] <nothingmuch> which are then reinflated

[04:00] <diotalevi> K.

[04:00] <diotalevi> So have you noticed that empty tt blocks are a syntax error?

[04:01] <nothingmuch> nope, I haven't

[04:01] <nothingmuch> i only used tt for very specific code

[04:01] <diotalevi> Didn't work for me. It threw errors.

[04:01] <nothingmuch> and haven't really tested rigorously

[04:01] * nothingmuch takes a look

[04:01] <diotalevi> C<use tt;\nno tt;>

[04:01] <audreyt> ...Test::Base, like most ingyware, is actually a very good idea, nicely executed, but the initial learning curve can be a bit strange :-)

[04:02] <markstos> I deleted some files, but svn didn't notice. How do I get svn to notice some files are gone? (I'm used to darcs, which notices automatically... )

[04:03] <audreyt> svk ci --import

[04:03] <nothingmuch> audreyt: could you help with the MC silliness?

[04:03] <audreyt> oh wait. you are using svn ;)

[04:03] <audreyt> well... "svn up" to revert and "svn rm" to delete

[04:03] <markstos> I don't mind switching to svk.

[04:03] <audreyt> ok. in svk then, just rm, then "svk ci --import"

[04:03] <nothingmuch> yay svk

[04:04] <markstos> Ok. I think for the moment I'll use "history" to figure out what I deleted.

[04:05] <SamB> you know what darcs doesn't notice?

[04:05] <SamB> when you do find -name '*.hs' | xargs rm, thats what...

[04:05] <nothingmuch> HOLY CRAP I LOVE MY MUM"S CAMERA

[04:05] <nothingmuch> i took a picture the a-10s that ruined our (clkao and me) lunch while hiking

[04:05] <nothingmuch> you can see the pilot's breathing tube

[04:05] <audreyt> SamB: which is why I vastly prefer ~/.svk/ for metadata.

[04:06] <nothingmuch> SamB: you can still co that darcs repo to reconstruct it, methinks

[04:06] <diotalevi> zowie. That thing you had with you in Chicago?

[04:07] <nothingmuch> diotalevi: yep

[04:07] <audreyt> nothingmuch: not if you _are_ the darcs repo...

[04:07] <nothingmuch> audreyt: the patch files shouldn't be affected, just the pristine tree

[04:08] <nothingmuch> IIRC

[04:08] <nothingmuch> i may be wrong though

[04:08] <audreyt> oh hm. point.

[04:08] <nothingmuch> but ~/.svk vs. $PWD/_darcs both have tradeoffs

[04:08] <SamB> I'm sure you can reconstruct it from patches

[04:08] <nothingmuch> i'd rather have a choice of using either according to my preference

[04:08] <nothingmuch> but that is bloatful software

[04:08] <SamB> as long as you didn't have any important changes that you hadn't recorded yet

[04:09] <SamB> I meant to do find -name '*.hi' | xargs rm

[04:09] <nothingmuch> SamB: so what did you mean by "doesn't notice" ?

[04:09] <SamB> it doesn't notice anything is wrong right away

[04:09] <nothingmuch> "wrong"

[04:09] <nothingmuch> ?

[04:10] <nothingmuch> why does it care about .hi files?

[04:10] <SamB> well, I typoed it to ".hs"

[04:10] <SamB> so it did the wrong thing...

[04:10] <nothingmuch> uh

[04:10] <nothingmuch> i still don't get it

[04:10] <nothingmuch> please don't say "wrong"

[04:11] <nothingmuch> say what you expected and what actually happenned =)

[04:11] *** fglock joined
[04:11] <SamB> well, I was expecting to have typed "*.hi" correctly

[04:12] <SamB> but I actually typed it as "*.hs"

[04:12] <SamB> so it deleted all my .hs files...

[04:12] <SamB> (including the ones in the _darcs/ directory)

[04:13] <nothingmuch> okay

[04:13] <nothingmuch> so what did darcs do/not do?

[04:13] <nothingmuch> notice that they were gone and let you revert that?

[04:13] <SamB> thats what it didn't do, yeah

[04:15] <nothingmuch> hmm

[04:15] <nothingmuch> did you submit a bug?

[04:15] <nothingmuch> i can reproduce and it seems pretty nasty

[04:16] <nothingmuch> i can repair it by using darcs get --no-pristine

[04:16] <nothingmuch> but that really sucks

[04:17] <markstos> What's happening is that darcs is comparing your working copy against the pristine tree and noticing there is no difference, because the reference copy of the file is gone, too.

[04:17] <svnbot6> r11338 | markstos++ | v6 - Remove test files in favor of having them be copied over by "perl Makefile.PL"

[04:17] <svnbot6> r11338 | markstos++ | by analyzing the manifest.

[04:17] <svnbot6> r11338 | markstos++ | Also, add new t/data_types/hash.t. It should fail, but unfortunately,

[04:17] <svnbot6> r11338 | markstos++ | the ".tc" test file is poorly formed, so all tests are skipped instead.

[04:17] <markstos> It should be fixable by "darcs repair", which rebuilds the pristine tree from the patch set.

[04:18] *** shachaf joined
[04:18] <nothingmuch> oh right, i forgot that even exists

[04:18] <markstos> It's avoidable in the future by using "darcs query manifest" or "ack" to list files in the current dir, and exclude _darcs.

[04:19] <nothingmuch> ack++

[04:19] <nothingmuch> lovely tool

[04:19] <nothingmuch> all it needs is -A -B and -C

[04:19] <markstos> Yes, I just installed it to avoid seeing ".svn" directories....

[04:20] <nothingmuch> well, for svn there is really no reason to use svn =)

[04:20] <nothingmuch> svk++ for 1 ...

[04:20] <nothingmuch> but i still prefer darcs' lightweight funkiness

[04:21] <markstos> My reason to use svn is that svk seems to be more complex. It ask me more questions and has more behaviors.

[04:21] <nothingmuch> that's my reason to use darcs ;-)

[04:21] <markstos> It really bothers me that sometimes "svk commit" sends files upstream, and sometimes it commits locally.

[04:22] <nothingmuch> you get used to it

[04:22] <audreyt> markstos: my initial proposal for "svk switch" has

[04:22] <audreyt> "svk offline"

[04:22] <audreyt> "svk online"

[04:22] <audreyt> as to train people into thinking in POP3 client terms

[04:22] <nothingmuch> heh

[04:22] <SamB> it isn't a bug, though...

[04:22] <audreyt> i.e. in offline mode when you hit "send"

[04:22] <audreyt> it's actually in outbox

[04:22] <markstos> I'm sure, but I prefer the simplicity of darcs. It has record, and push, and the difference is clear.

[04:23] <audreyt> and I agree :)

[04:23] * audreyt thinks darcs's win is mostly due to not having to be bug-for-bug compatible with svn, and therefor cvs, and therefore rcs

[04:23] <markstos> I initially tried to use darcs to commit to Perl6, but it seems like it's not used at all in actually.

[04:23] <nothingmuch> yup =)

[04:23] <audreyt> otoh, there's something to be said about compatibility...

[04:24] * nothingmuch 's #2 reason for darcs is that anything is a repo

[04:24] <nothingmuch> http, ssh, etc

[04:24] <markstos> audreyt: I think it was a great social decision to host Perl6 in svn.

[04:24] <SamB> svn is supposed to be bug-for-bug compatible with CVS? I don't think so...

[04:24] <audreyt> SamB: the command set

[04:24] <svnbot6> r11339 | fglock++ | v6 - HACKING - links; added to MANIFEST

[04:24] <audreyt> not the semantics

[04:25] <audreyt> the surface feel

[04:25] <SamB> oh, sure, wart-for-wart, mostly

[04:25] <audreyt> in that regard svk is not unlike perl6 and darcs is not unlike haskell :)

[04:26] <nothingmuch> aye

[04:26] <SamB> only with even worse algorithms...

[04:26] <audreyt> i.e. what svk did to svn is comparable to what v6.pm is doing to perl5...

[04:26] <nothingmuch> svk is a revision control chainsaw

[04:26] <nothingmuch> darcs is like a katana

[04:26] <nothingmuch> real ninjas can also kill with a chainsaw quite cleanly

[04:26] <SamB> a katana with some bad big-O complexity

[04:26] <nothingmuch> but occasionally they fry the catalyst repo

[04:26] <nothingmuch> and then a truer ninja must rollback everything

[04:26] <nothingmuch> *cough*

[04:27] <audreyt> when you kill with a chainsaw, I hear it's called "frag"

[04:27] * nothingmuch has never been burnt by darcs' conflict behavior

[04:27] <SamB> I thought that was rockets

[04:27] <SamB> I ran into it when Lemmih did massive changes to Conjure...

[04:27] <audreyt> maybe. the last time I played FPS it was Doom 2

[04:28] <SamB> well, I dunno, this was SIM Car

[04:28] <SamB> okay, okay, Streets of SimCity

[04:28] <audreyt> and truth to be told I didn't enjoy it, but I did prefer chainsaw, and giggled a lot. :)

[04:29] <nothingmuch> hey

[04:29] <nothingmuch> girls don't play shoot-em-ups

[04:29] * nothingmuch is an unreal-tournament-assault-sniper-rifle guy

[04:29] <audreyt> I was 14 or so, and it was the only game available in our .com office for a while...

[04:29] <svnbot6> r11340 | markstos++ | v6 - Add section on "writing tests" to HACKING, to explain about the new "perl Makefile.PL" hackery.

[04:30] <nothingmuch> hmm

[04:30] <nothingmuch> when I was 14 i didn't even know how to program

[04:30] <nothingmuch> i was just getting started with html

[04:31] * audreyt ponders playing katamari for a bit.

[04:31] <diotalevi> So with this M::C stuff, doesn't Ingy eventually have to know whether the next thing being looked at is an expression or an operator and whether something is in a string or not?

[04:32] <diotalevi> I just got << in some strings to get M::C to fail.

[04:32] <diotalevi> In the test suite that is.

[04:32] <audreyt> diotalevi: yes. PPI or MAD is prolly the only sane way out of this

[04:33] <audreyt> a patch to use PPI to implement M::C folding would be very nice.

[04:33] <audreyt> (or MAD.)

[04:33] <diotalevi> yeah. I was just about to say that but didn't when you already did.

[04:36] <TimToady> eep.

[04:36] <TimToady> Use of uninitialized value in subroutine entry at /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.6/Test/TAP/Model/File.pm line 80.

[04:36] *** justatheory joined
[04:36] <TimToady> "... error: The submitted smoke has an invalid format!

[04:37] <nothingmuch> aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah what did I do?

[04:38] <nothingmuch> my line 80 doesn't look like it could generate that error

[04:38] <svnbot6> r11341 | Darren_Duncan++ | updated lib/Pugs/Doc/Hack.pod to bring the 'Source tree map' section up to date

[04:38] <svnbot6> r11342 | fglock++ | v6 - HACKING - more info

[04:38] <nothingmuch> my line 81 might possibly

[04:38] <TimToady> my $scalar = List::Util::max(@values);

[04:38] <nothingmuch> that's my line 89

[04:38] <audreyt> running smoke here to reproduce

[04:39] <TimToady> repeats that message about 15 times at the end of the smoke.

[04:40] <TimToady> smoke.html seems well formed enough for firefox.

[04:40] <TimToady> but only did about 3000 tests

[04:41] <TimToady> so I don't think the smoke tester has tracked all the directory changes.

[04:41] <TimToady> I might be a little out of date on that though.

[04:42] <TimToady> now there's a new one.  svn up produces:

[04:42] <TimToady> svn: Working copy 'perl5/Sub-Multi/inc' is missing or not locked

[04:42] <nothingmuch> TimToady: the routine that generates the test case objects (one per block) seems to gnenerating that warning

[04:42] <nothingmuch> err error

[04:43] <nothingmuch> which seems failry bogus

[04:43] <nothingmuch> because the sub in question is the filter (i think)

[04:43] <nothingmuch> which is always hard coded

[04:43] <nothingmuch> so something is calling _c (the convenience construct method guy) in a naughty way (i think)

[04:43] <nothingmuch> likely cause is malformed TAP output

[04:48] <TimToady> got a fresh 'svn up' so I'll try it again.

[04:49] <diotalevi> I'm new to svn. If I have a checkout is it normal that subdirectories will get reported as not being under version control even though it was originally provided in the co?

[04:50] <diotalevi> Tried svn diff src/dynpmc/Makefile from within a parrot checkout and got "svn: 'src/dynpmc/Makefile' is not under version control" which is wrong, AFAIK.

[04:51] <SamB> probably it is a generated file

[04:51] <audreyt> it is a generated file.

[04:51] <nothingmuch> jupiter and saturn

[04:52] <dduncan> what about them?

[04:52] <nothingmuch> just singing

[04:53] <nothingmuch> http://www.lyricsfreak.com/p/pink+floyd/astronomy+domine_20108806.html

[04:53] <lambdabot> Title: "Pink Floyd | Astronomy Domine Lyrics"

[04:53] <diotalevi> bummer.

[04:54] <SamB> this is how you do it: o/` yodo, yo-yo-yo-yo yoda o/`

[04:55] * nothingmuch is paying $40 for a *$@%!% panorama stitching app

[04:55] <nothingmuch> if *ANYBODY* wants their panoramas stitched

[04:55] <nothingmuch> =)

[04:55] <nothingmuch> luckily making good panos is just a function of CPU time

[04:57] <diotalevi> got the *right* makefile this time. thanks for the pointer audreyt.

[04:58] <audreyt> np :)

[04:58] * markstos wonders of hugin is any good at Panorama stitching. http://hugin.sourceforge.net/

[04:58] <lambdabot> Title: "hugin - Panorama Tools GUI"

[04:58] <nothingmuch> markstos: i tried that a while back, IIRC

[04:58] <nothingmuch> http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~mbrown/autostitch/autostitch.html

[04:58] <lambdabot> Title: "AutoStitch"

[04:59] <nothingmuch> this is what i want

[04:59] <nothingmuch> unfortunately it's a govnermnet funded university project

[04:59] <nothingmuch> so it's only got commercial licensing

[04:59] <nothingmuch> </cynical>

[05:00] <nothingmuch> obra: i'll actually take you up on the macbook

[05:00] <svnbot6> r11343 | fglock++ | v6 - TODO update

[05:00] <nothingmuch> the reg key will take ~24 hrs to arrive

[05:00] <markstos> AutoStick does look neat.

[05:01] <nothingmuch> it's got very good output... i've used it several times before

[05:01] <nothingmuch> but using virtual pc silliness

[05:02] <markstos> fglock: thanks for adding hash and array to the TODO list. :)

[05:05] <audreyt> smoke completed and uploade

[05:06] <fglock> markstos: not sure what's the best way to implement the runtime yet - maybe translate all @xxx to $_ARRAY_xxx may get closest to the p6 semantics - but hash/pair is a bit more difficult

[05:06] <audreyt> I don't seen any problems here

[05:07] <audreyt> fglock: hm, what's the problem with reusing native hash and array types?

[05:08] <audreyt> just contexts?

[05:09] <fglock> audreyt: not sure yet - will need some tests to see how it works

[05:10] *** cmatei joined
[05:11] <audreyt> ok. something like Perl6::Contexts is always possible

[05:11] <fglock> %a = (1,2,3) works already

[05:13] <fglock> a block containing a list is always a hash or a pair, right?

[05:15] <audreyt> uh

[05:15] <audreyt> no

[05:16] <audreyt> If the closure

[05:16] <audreyt> appears to delimit nothing but a comma-separated list starting with

[05:16] <audreyt> a pair (counting a single pair as a list of one element), the closure

[05:16] <audreyt> will be immediately executed as a hash composer.

[05:17] <audreyt> also, {} is a hash

[05:21] <fglock> is '{  }' also a hash (with spaces inside)

[05:22] <audreyt> yes

[05:23] <audreyt> heh. Simon Cozens, in the POD of B::Generate:

[05:23] <audreyt> This module can obviously be used for all sorts of fun purposes. The best one will be in conjuction with source filters; have your source filter parse an input file in a foreign language, create an op tree for it and get Perl to execute it. Then email me and tell me how you did it. And why.

[05:23] <audreyt> this sounds eeriely familiar...

[05:29] <obra> *laugh*

[05:30] * nothingmuch mentions something about talking to rgs about this in OSDC

[05:30] <nothingmuch> all we need is a volunictim to actually execute this

[05:35] <audreyt> mm volunictim.

[05:35] <audreyt> victeer

[05:38] <nothingmuch> i don't like victeer

[05:38] <nothingmuch> it sounds like it involves winning

[05:38] *** amnesiac joined
[05:39] <audreyt> ...and sneering

[05:45] <svnbot6> r11344 | Darren_Duncan++ | removed some stuff from MANIFEST.SKIP that actually is in version control, sorted the rest

[05:48] <svnbot6> r11345 | fglock++ | v6 - hash composer: '%a = { }; %b = { 1, 2 }; %c = { $a }' emits hash,hash,code;

[05:48] <svnbot6> r11345 | fglock++ | - not implemented yet: '%d = { $pair, }; %e = { 1=>2 }'

[05:49] <nothingmuch> ughghghgghhgg

[05:50] <nothingmuch> Darren_Duncan--; # perl5/Data-Bind should *not* be rolled into the next release of pugs even if it is under version control

[05:50] <nothingmuch> etc etc

[05:51] <dduncan> so MANIFEST.SKIP isn't just for generated files etc?

[05:51] <dduncan> and .svn and stuff

[05:51] <audreyt> it's a list of things we don't bundle with Perl6-Pugs.

[05:52] <dduncan> sometimes its hard to tell whats cruft when things are routinely out of date

[05:52] <dduncan> I can revert that file then

[05:53] <dduncan> a related question ...

[05:53] <fglock> sleep &

[05:54] <dduncan> if you say "svk status" , does it look in MANIFEST.SKIP so to not display various generated files that aren't in version control with '?'s

[05:54] <dduncan> if so, I'm getting somewhat inconsistent results; eg, some Makefile show up, others don't

[05:55] *** scook0 joined
[05:56] <nothingmuch> http://nothingmuch.woobling.org/DSC_3487.jpg

[06:01] <dduncan> quick question ... the order of items in the file doesn't matter, does it?

[06:01] <dduncan> while I revert the items, I'm inclined to leave them sorted so they're easier to search in

[06:02] <nothingmuch> dduncan: probably not

[06:02] <nothingmuch> ExtUtils::Manifest

[06:03] <nothingmuch> since they're actually regexes they don't have an "order"

[06:03] <nothingmuch> if a file matches any of these it'll be skipped

[06:03] <obra> -> bed

[06:03] <dduncan> yes

[06:04] <dduncan> I saw a redundant one, I think: ^throw_away/ and ^throw_away

[06:04] <dduncan> will keep shorter

[06:04] <nothingmuch> nuh uh

[06:04] <nothingmuch> keep the one that is more explicit

[06:04] <nothingmuch> =)

[06:04] <nothingmuch> it doesn't like the throw_away directory

[06:04] <dduncan> fine then

[06:05] <nothingmuch> not any file whose path starts with throw_away

[06:05] <nothingmuch> but meh, it doesn't really matter

[06:05] <dduncan> eg, we might have a throw_away_not_really

[06:05] *** Khisanth joined
[06:05] <dduncan> but as I said, both were there before, so the less specific subsumes the other anyway

[06:12] <svnbot6> r11347 | Darren_Duncan++ | restored MANIFEST.SKIP entries removed in r11344, but made them sorted in groups by [full match, match start, match end, match middle]

[06:51] <nothingmuch> http://gallery.woobling.org/album57

[06:51] <lambdabot> Title: "Woobling :: Untitled"

[07:06] *** Aankhen`` joined
[07:11] *** dduncan left
[07:12] <nothingmuch> clkao_: ping re link

[07:12] <nothingmuch> good night

[08:12] <clkao_> hi

[08:31] *** f0rth joined
[08:44] *** xinming joined
[08:48] *** Khisanth joined
[08:51] * clkao_ pushes the bos-lhr branch

[08:51] *** pingu joined
[08:55] <svnbot6> r11348 | clkao++ |  r15253@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 01:11:42 +0100

[08:55] <svnbot6> r11348 | clkao++ |  disable the "is" sub emit cleverness.

[08:55] <svnbot6> r11349 | clkao++ |  r15254@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 02:08:34 +0100

[08:55] <svnbot6> r11349 | clkao++ |  add_multi interface for incremental declaration.

[08:57] *** nnunley joined
[08:57] <svnbot6> r11350 | clkao++ |  r15255@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 02:13:24 +0100

[08:57] <svnbot6> r11350 | clkao++ |  die when there is extra incoming positional parameters.

[09:00] <svnbot6> r11351 | clkao++ |  r15256@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 02:28:36 +0100

[09:00] <svnbot6> r11351 | clkao++ |  Pass simple-multisubs.

[09:00] <svnbot6> r11352 | clkao++ |  r15257@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 03:06:35 +0100

[09:00] <svnbot6> r11352 | clkao++ |  Support "my sub foo {}", which is local *foo = sub {}.

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |  r15258@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 04:26:42 +0100

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |  Optionaly Pugs::Compiler::Regex->compile cache with Cache::FileCache.

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |    Before:

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |      % time perl -MPugs::Compiler::Perl6 -e1

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |      13.221u 0.067s 0:13.66 97.2%    10+23038k 0+0io 0pf+0w

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |    After: (note the second run)

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |      % time perl -MPugs::Compiler::Perl6 -e1

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |      13.835u 0.231s 0:14.54 96.6%    10+24234k 0+0io 0pf+0w

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |      % time perl -MPugs::Compiler::Perl6 -e1

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11353 | clkao++ |      3.153u 0.134s 0:03.36 97.6%     10+13086k 0+0io 0pf+0w

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11354 | clkao++ |  r15259@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 05:14:50 +0100

[09:03] <svnbot6> r11354 | clkao++ |  ->arity.

[09:06] <svnbot6> r11355 | clkao++ |  r15260@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 05:25:45 +0100

[09:06] <svnbot6> r11355 | clkao++ |  Pass builtin/arity.t

[09:06] <svnbot6> r11356 | clkao++ |  r15261@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 06:30:16 +0100

[09:06] <svnbot6> r11356 | clkao++ |  doc fixes.

[09:08] *** chris2 joined
[09:08] <svnbot6> r11357 | clkao++ |  r15262@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 06:57:31 +0100

[09:08] <svnbot6> r11357 | clkao++ |  Cache for yapp too, this makes Pugs::Compiler::Perl6 load time down to 1sec.

[09:08] <svnbot6> r11358 | clkao++ |  r15263@ab:  clkao | 2006-07-09 07:02:48 +0100

[09:08] <svnbot6> r11358 | clkao++ |  src_to_blib - touch pmc files at the end, so they don't get recompiled.

[09:10] <clkao_> seatguru++ # finding me power on economy

[09:11] <monkey_> um, the paste page isn't working :(

[09:11] <monkey_> so anyway

[09:11] <svnbot6> r11359 | clkao++ | Fix PCR bootstraping problem.  use p5 version of iterator-engine.

[09:12] <monkey_> does anyone have any idea why the following doesn't seem to terminate:

[09:12] <monkey_> multi sub foldr (&f, $x) {$x}; multi sub foldr (&f, *$h, *@t) {&f($h,foldr(\&f,@t))}; foldr(sub {@_[0] + @_[1]},(1,2,3));

[09:13] <monkey_> the last line just never returns

[09:13] <monkey_> i'm a complete p6 noob thoug, so maybe i've got bad syntax or i'm missing something

[09:13] <clkao_> is there try(...) ? i thought there's only try {block}

[09:15] <clkao_> t/perl5/basic.t, that is

[09:15] *** elmex joined
[09:18] <clkao_> ?eval try(1)

[09:18] *** evalbot_11337 is now known as evalbot_11359

[09:18] <evalbot_11359> Error: Cannot cast from VInt 1 to Pugs.AST.Internals.VCode (VCode)

[09:18] <clkao_> ?eval try({1})

[09:18] <evalbot_11359> 1

[09:18] <clkao_> ?eval try {1}

[09:18] <evalbot_11359> 1

[09:18] <clkao_> mmm

[09:25] <clkao_> meet superfast v6 compile ;)

[09:39] *** larsen joined
[09:42] *** coderhasan joined
[10:03] *** Jedai joined
[10:03] <Jedai> Hello

[10:06] <svnbot6> r11360 | clkao++ | * Move eval from prefix op to a runtime function.

[10:06] <svnbot6> r11360 | clkao++ | * Support eval(..., :lang<perl5>).

[10:12] *** mj41_ joined
[10:13] <mj41_> hello,

[10:13] <mj41_> Could not find module `Data.ByteString':     use -v to see a list of the files searched for   (imported from src/Pugs/AST/Internals/Instances.hs)

[10:14] <mj41_> win32, ghc 6.4.2

[10:15] <svnbot6> r11361 | clkao++ | * Make try emit a do block, so "if try { ... }" would work.

[10:15] <svnbot6> r11361 | clkao++ | * Pass perl5/basic.t

[10:18] *** Jedai is now known as Jedai666

[10:22] *** Jedai666 is now known as Jedai

[10:22] *** coderhasan left
[10:39] *** elmex joined
[10:43] *** Provito joined
[11:05] *** penk joined
[11:09] *** Jedai joined
[11:33] *** mauke_ joined
[11:40] *** DaGo joined
[11:40] *** iblechbot joined
[11:47] *** lumi joined
[11:48] *** mauke_ is now known as mauke

[12:27] *** Corion joined
[12:27] *** Corion left
[12:28] *** prefiks joined
[12:43] *** elmex joined
[12:56] *** snowstalker joined
[12:58] <meppl> guten morgen

[12:58] <Jedai> Hello

[13:16] *** nothingmuch_ joined
[13:34] <nothingmuch_> morning

[13:35] *** nothingmuch_ is now known as nothingmuch

[13:58] <gaal> hey nothingmuch

[14:03] *** theorbtwo joined
[14:07] <nothingmuch> hi gaal

[14:07] <nothingmuch> whazzaaaaaaaaaap

[14:07] * nothingmuch waits for all the slackers to get up so that we can have breakfast

[14:15] <gaal> we went to see Rocky Horror last night, in the theater where "it all started"

[14:28] <nothingmuch> oi

[14:28] <nothingmuch> one of my exes was really into that in a scary way

[14:28] * nothingmuch has bad connotations since

[14:47] <gaal> two amusing things, to me: first, the back talk has been being updated all along: there were mentions of cell phones and Bush

[14:48] <gaal> second, most of the cast were under thirty, meaning they were born after this particulat venue had stopped putting up the show (this was the first time in years)

[14:50] <gaal> (omg present perfect progressive passive again!)

[15:00] <nothingmuch> heh

[15:00] <nothingmuch> gaal++; # nice silliness

[15:14] *** ludan joined
[15:15] *** rashakil joined
[15:26] *** FurnaceBoy joined
[15:31] *** nothingmuch joined
[15:37] <clkao_> nothingmuch!

[15:37] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[15:39] <ajs_home> What do I have to do in order to acquire this mythical commit bit that Larry said was incoming? Does an account need to be created somewhere that I give as a command-line option to svn?

[15:40] <nothingmuch> clkao_: !

[15:40] <nothingmuch> did you see your pics?

[15:40] *** cognominal joined
[15:41] <clkao_> nothingmuch: yes! very nice! except the one i am sleeping

[15:42] <nothingmuch> clkao_: you're up already

[15:42] <nothingmuch> upload yours

[15:43] <nothingmuch> i need to link to my winning entry in the hideous hiker competition

[15:43] * nnunley grins.

[15:55] *** Aankh|Clone is now known as Aankhen``

[15:57] <nothingmuch> clkao_: !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

[15:58] <gaal> ajs_home: can we use the email you used in the post to p6-l?

[15:59] <clkao_> nothingmuch: zzz

[15:59] <nothingmuch> clkao_: UPLOAD

[16:01] * clkao_ lazy

[16:01] <gaal> ajs_home: actually I see that an invitation has already been sent to you; did you not receive it?

[16:02] <nothingmuch> clkao_: oh come on

[16:02] <nothingmuch> i wanna see that picture

[16:02] <ajs_home> Sorry was away a bit

[16:02] <ajs_home> I'm a back, and yep, [email@hidden.address]
[16:02] <gaal> resending

[16:03] <ajs_home> k, thanks

[16:03] <ajs_home> Mail may take a bit. I greylist.

[16:03] <ajs_home> I'll check it later, after I see A Scanner Darkly

[16:03] <gaal> resent: with this metabit you can invite others, too.

[16:04] <gaal> heh, I just saw that last night - 1

[16:04] <gaal> enjoy

[16:04] <ajs_home> gaal: Thanks... oh, and what did you think? Good adaptation?

[16:04] <gaal> I wouldn't want to spoil anything for you so let's talk after you see it :)

[16:05] <ajs_home> k, wilco

[16:07] <monkey_> gah, don't suppose anyone has any thoughts on the foldr problem i posted earlier?

[16:08] <monkey_> hmm

[16:08] <monkey_> ?eval 1

[16:08] *** evalbot_11359 is now known as evalbot_11361

[16:08] <evalbot_11361> 1

[16:08] <nothingmuch> gaal: is meta-bit-meta-bitting now std?

[16:08] <nothingmuch> i wasn't sure if i should invite as admin or not

[16:08] <monkey_> ?eval multi sub foldr (&f, $x) {$x}; multi sub foldr (&f, *$h, *@t) {&f($h,foldr(\&f,@t))}; foldr(sub {@_[0] + @_[1]},(1,2,3));

[16:09] <evalbot_11361> (no output)

[16:09] <monkey_> hmm

[16:09] <gaal> nothingmuch: ajs already had a metacommitter invite set for him

[16:10] <nothingmuch> gaal: i meant like, new invitees

[16:10] <nothingmuch> in general

[16:10] <gaal> audrey said a couple of times that she's happy with more metacommitters, and ajs has been doing S29 work

[16:10] <nothingmuch> is ajs special for getting meta comitter access or not?

[16:10] <nothingmuch> ah

[16:16] *** integral_ joined
[16:27] *** integral_ is now known as integral

[16:29] *** larsen_ joined
[16:37] *** justatheory joined
[16:39] *** putter joined
[16:39] <putter> hi all

[16:39] <putter> re mmd dispatch

[16:40] <clkao_> greetings

[16:40] <putter> hi clkao :)

[16:40] <putter> my next line is "oh, never mind, I get it".  :)

[16:40] <clkao_> putter: sub::multi is for you, fill in the vapourware detection loop ;)

[16:41] <putter> ok :)

[16:42] <putter> are there partial orders on classes/roles?

[16:44] <putter> the two parts which have remained stable for a while are the phase 0 "ignore variants who's signatures are not compatible with the call capture", and type narrowness comparison is inclusion-based.

[16:45] <TimToady> To the first approximation, the basic criterion is that people you've met personally can have metacommit access.

[16:46] <TimToady> (that's what Audrey told me)

[16:46] <TimToady> basically we just want to make sure metacommiters are real people. :)

[16:47] <clkao_> me . o O (anna)

[16:50] <TimToady> (so that we can come and break their kneecaps if they do something stupid. :)

[16:50] <svnbot6> r11362 | markstos++ | simple code formatting/alignment fix.

[16:50] <svnbot6> r11363 | nnunley++ | Quick extraction of all the calls to *::Internals::* functions.

[16:53] <putter> are the variants of a multi sub, subs, and of a multi method, methods?

[16:54] <putter> or simply a Code,Signature tuple.

[16:54] <clkao_> nothingmuch: you are not on #svk, we are loving moose there

[16:54] <szbalint> How is a meta commit bit different from a regular commit bit?

[16:54] <putter> not a pressing question, I've just been wondering

[16:55] <putter> meta lets you add commiters

[16:55] <szbalint> ah

[16:58] <szbalint> I think I've only met TimToady from here.

[17:02] <TimToady> so you could give me a metacommiter bit.  :)

[17:02] <TimToady> especially since you already have one.

[17:05] *** nothingmuch joined
[17:09] <szbalint> :)

[17:11] *** lisppaste3 joined
[17:12] <putter> anyone willing to hear a mmd story?

[17:14] <putter> mmd = multimethod dispatch algorithm.  i'd explain it all as the story goes.

[17:17] <svnbot6> r11364 | markstos++ | v6 - update docs for Sub::Multi and Data::Bind. peer review requested.

[17:20] <svnbot6> r11365 | markstos++ | v6 - start 'CHANGES' file for

[17:20] <svnbot6> r11366 | markstos++ | My last commit was an oops. This adds another entry Sub::Multi CHANGES.

[17:22] *** diotalevi joined
[17:23] <gaal> airport &

[17:25] <putter> gaal: have a good flight.

[17:25] <putter> markstos: ping?

[17:30] <putter> ah well.  I need a user to soundboard the user story on mmd with.  bbl &

[17:46] <Jedai> Could someone send me a commit bit (normal ;) ), audrey said she would send me one but I think I missed it

[17:53] *** shachaf joined
[18:07] <szbalint> Jedai: It is already sent. Did you not receive it?

[18:09] <Jedai> I did not :( You sent it on chaddai.fouche@ens-lyon.fr ?

[18:10] *** hexmode joined
[18:17] <svnbot6> r11367 | nnunley++ | Adding a missing dependency.

[18:21] *** penk joined
[18:22] *** larsen___ joined
[18:40] <nothingmuch> mÃ¸Ã¸sage

[18:40] *** xdg joined
[18:41] <audreyt> Jedai: check your spam box?

[18:41] <audreyt> Jedai: or just register on http://rt.openfoundry.org/ yourself

[18:41] <audreyt> and tell us your id

[18:47] *** Bit-Man joined
[18:48] *** larsen joined
[18:53] <svnbot6> r11368 | audreyt++ | * First draft of Feb 2006 Perl 6 Summary from Ann Barcomb (kudra).

[18:53] <svnbot6> r11369 | audreyt++ | * add kudra to AUTHORS.

[18:56] <svnbot6> r11370 | audreyt++ | * move to summary.

[18:56] <svnbot6> r11371 | audreyt++ | * 02-28.

[19:11] *** markstos joined
[19:18] <svnbot6> r11372 | jedai++ | * Adding a test for reverse in t/builtins/string\n* add jedai to Authors

[19:18] <Jedai> It seems I was added automagically after creating a "jedai" account since you already added me as a commiter

[19:18] <Jedai> Is it normal ? o_O

[19:28] *** bpederse_ joined
[19:33] <audreyt> that is normal

[19:33] <audreyt> very nice :)

[19:33] <audreyt> Jedai++

[19:38] *** bpederse_ left
[20:32] *** larsen_ joined
[20:35] *** fglock joined
[20:36] *** stephanepayrard_ joined
[20:42] <fglock> wow - the irc daily logs are getting huge again :)

[20:51] <fglock> clkao_: ping

[20:52] <ajs_home> When I submit the registration page on openfoundry it just comes back blank... is that typical?

[20:53] <clkao_> fglock: pong

[20:53] <fglock> clkao_: I saw the last commits - nice!

[20:53] <clkao_> fglock: ;) it's now superfast

[20:54] <clkao_> fglock: i was going to make smoke work. but it seems there's some fun with PERL5LIB

[20:56] *** kanru joined
[20:56] <audreyt> ajs_home: just refresh POST

[20:57] <audreyt> hit ctrl-r

[20:57] *** khisanth_ joined
[20:57] <ajs_home> Worked nicely, thanks audreyt

[20:58] <clkao_> audreyt: how goes

[20:59] *** ruz joined
[20:59] *** khisanth_ joined
[20:59] <audreyt> working on docs/summaries/2006/02-28.pod with nothingmuch

[20:59] *** khisanth_ is now known as Khisanth

[21:00] *** trym joined
[21:02] *** tcliou joined
[21:02] *** knewt joined
[21:02] *** obra joined
[21:02] *** unobe joined
[21:02] *** spinclad joined
[21:05] *** xdg joined
[21:05] *** buubot joined
[21:08] *** elmex joined
[21:08] *** scw joined
[21:10] *** larsen joined
[21:10] *** nothingmuch joined
[21:11] <clkao_> moose

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | Updates to S29 / Functions based on p6l disucssions and some general cleanup.

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | Fleshed out or otherwise modified:

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * constants

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * sprintf

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * grep/map

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * pop/push/shift/unshift/splice

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * wait/fork

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * sleep

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * sign

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * defined/undefine/undef

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * zip

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * substr

[21:11] <ajs_home> Ahem...

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * join

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * bless

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | * ord/chr

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | Also, some gereral cleanup around optional arguments syntax. and removing

[21:11] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | code-as-documentation where I've provided actual documentation.

[21:12] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | Also moved waitpid to obsolete section, since named arguments on wait

[21:12] <svnbot6> r11373 | ajs++ | subsume its functionality. It's not clear if we need or want an alias...

[21:12] <ajs_home> er ... sorry about the long comment :-/

[21:14] <svnbot6> r11374 | nothingmuch++ | uri shortening script

[21:16] *** SamB joined
[21:16] <svnbot6> r11375 | audreyt++ | * 02-28: joint proof-reading and link fixes with nothingmuch+

[21:19] <svnbot6> r11376 | audreyt++ | * properly utf8'ing

[21:21] *** fglock joined
[21:21] <nothingmuch> kudra++ # real work behind summaries

[21:21] <svnbot6> r11377 | nothingmuch++ | add -u option to shorten script - to unshorten uris

[21:21] <audreyt> kudra++ # indeed

[21:23] <fglock> how about creating an AUTHORS file for v6.pm?

[21:24] <fglock> clkao_: please let me know if there is anything I can do to help you - I'm now working on array/hash

[21:31] <clkao_> fglock: there's some t files failing compiling, even more, it's infinite loop when parsing

[21:31] <nothingmuch> clkao_: photos

[21:32] <fglock> clkao_: the infinite loop may actually be the parser backtracking over some error - I'll check

[21:35] <clkao_> nothingmuch: working on i. i think i forogt my card reader, where i now have the usb calbe

[21:35] <svnbot6> r11378 | nothingmuch++ | stub for 03-31.pod

[21:38] <svnbot6> r11379 | nothingmuch++ | stubs and props for other months

[21:45] <svnbot6> r11380 | nothingmuch++ | small fixes to the summary and summary stubs

[21:45] <fglock> clkao_: in t/01-pod.t - the error is because the eval was moved out of the lexical context - it happens in a subroutine now

[21:46] <fglock> eval needs to be inlined

[21:46] <clkao> mm

[21:48] <svnbot6> r11381 | nothingmuch++ | explain wtf is parrot-porters

[21:48] *** lisppaste3 joined
[21:50] <fglock> clkao_: it's incredibly faster

[21:50] <svnbot6> r11382 | nothingmuch++ | revedrt nothingmuch--'s change, and s/perl6-internals/parrot-porters/ where appropriate due to list rename

[21:50] <clkao> fglock: ;))

[21:52] <nothingmuch> http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-3934788900154749704&

[21:55] <nothingmuch> i'm surprised they didn't make fun of the segway incident

[22:03] <szbalint> oh they finally renamed the list? interesting++

[22:04] <obra> szbalint: chip decreed that parrot-porters was a part of resetting the culture.

[22:05] <audreyt> amen to that

[22:11] <svnbot6> r11383 | fglock++ | v6 - added infix:{'=>'}

[22:19] <clkao> fglock: we also need to emit things respecting $infix:<XXX>

[22:20] <fglock> clkao: example?

[22:20] <clkao> if you override infix:<+> somewhere

[22:21] <fglock> I was leaving this for later - it makes optimizing much more difficult, because all ops need to be tested before executing

[22:22] <fglock> localizing the grammar is possible, but it's not implemented yet

[22:23] <fglock> but it is in the TODO list

[22:26] <fglock> however, objects implementing ' ' can be translated to overloads

[22:26] <fglock> 'plus'

[22:28] *** Khisanth joined
[22:29] <clkao> i think we need a new set of tests 02-prelude that supports the syntax and semantics used by prelude that is to be shared

[22:33] <fglock> where does Cache::FileCache stores files in windows?

[22:34] <clkao> i don't know. <tmp directory>/FileCache

[22:36] <fglock> thanks!

[22:41] *** dduncan joined
[23:03] *** lumi joined
[23:03] <TreyHarris> anyone good with figuring out why Build scripts are installing where they are?  I install everything in my home directory, but so far, even with prefix, install_base, and all the makemakerflags set to my home dir, it's still trying to install DateTime::Format::MySQL into /usr/local/man and /Library/Perl/5.8.6/darwin-thread-multi-2level/auto/DateTime...

[23:07] <bennymack> perlbot cpan

[23:07] <perlbot> Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (where to download perl modules) is at http://www.cpan.org/, and can be searched with http://search.cpan.org/

[23:07] <bennymack> hmm

[23:17] <svnbot6> r11384 | fglock++ | Pugs/Grammar/Precedence.pm - (1,) parses as ('1',null) instead of '1'

[23:29] <svnbot6> r11385 | fglock++ | v6 - {1=>2} is Code; {1=>2,} is Pair/Hash

[23:30] <clkao> fglock: can you make t/builtins/arrays/elems.t parse fail gracefully?

[23:30] <clkao> it's currently looping

[23:32] <nothingmuch> clkao++ # some photos

[23:34] <fglock> clkao: looking

[23:48] <dduncan> following suggestions posted here yesterday, wherein I said I couldn't afford to attend any conferences short term (the cheap ones, YAPC, require plane fare, those close by, OSCON, are expensive), it was suggested that I could try the "hallway track" of OSCON ... having looked more into that event, I've come to realize that there is a lot going on there that is free, and those parts are generally more valuable than any sessions or tutor

[23:48] <dduncan> despite the short notice, I am now strongly considering going and doing this ...

[23:48] <dduncan> so besides those listed as speakers, and hence would be in the area, I'm interested in knowing who will be there

[23:49] <dduncan> and also, where you will be staying at the time

[23:49] <clkao> nothingmuch: my camera date is fscked

[23:52] <nothingmuch> =(

[23:55] *** pasteling joined
