[00:34] *** cognominal joined
[00:39] <spinclad> .oO{ the quiet before the storm }

[00:39] *** Ymmv_ joined
[00:57] *** dduncan joined
[01:10] * kolibrie has arrived at the campus for YAPC

[01:22] *** pdcawley joined
[01:30] *** pdcawley joined
[01:36] *** tup joined
[01:51] *** pdcawley_ joined
[02:01] *** scook0 joined
[02:02] *** pdcawley joined
[02:13] *** pdcawley joined
[02:18] *** macroron joined
[02:19] *** jiing_mIRC joined
[02:20] <kolibrie> sleep &

[02:20] *** pdcawley joined
[02:22] *** tcliou joined
[02:24] *** tcliou joined
[02:25] *** tup joined
[02:28] *** christopher joined
[02:31] *** miyagawa joined
[02:32] *** rashakil_ joined
[02:35] *** miyagawa joined
[02:37] *** Ymmv_ joined
[02:38] *** pdcawley joined
[02:55] *** pdcawley joined
[02:58] *** rashakil__ joined
[03:02] *** cognominal joined
[03:15] *** pdcawley joined
[03:21] *** weinig|away is now known as weinig

[03:22] *** weinig is now known as weinig|sleep

[03:27] *** pdcawley_ joined
[03:28] *** nothingmuch joined
[03:28] <nothingmuch> hola from SSV

[03:29] <obra> hey nothingmuch

[03:29] <obra> where are you?

[03:29] <nothingmuch> room 2.2

[03:30] <nothingmuch> with stevan and robkinyon

[03:30] <nothingmuch> where are you guys?

[03:30] <nothingmuch> (north building)

[03:30] <miyagawa> my room is North 2.7

[03:31] * nothingmuch commits YAML-Syck local branch

[03:31] <audreyt> yay

[03:31] <audreyt> I think we can roll a release of Pugs tonight

[03:32] <nothingmuch> obra: i fixed yout test

[03:32] *** stevan joined
[03:32] <nothingmuch> it was a weirdness of ok accepting code refs and invoking them

[03:32] <nothingmuch> i also added leak tests

[03:32] <nothingmuch> and partially plugged a leak in Storable

[03:32] <nothingmuch> when the eval fails

[03:33] <obra> nothingmuch: 4.2 center

[03:33] <obra> pop up and say hi

[03:33] <nothingmuch> will do shortly

[03:33] * nothingmuch has been moving for 24 hrs now

[03:33] <stevan> hey obra

[03:33] <nothingmuch> after ~3 hrs of sleep the night before

[03:33] <nothingmuch> so shower is first priority

[03:33] <obra> hey stevan

[03:43] *** svnbot6 joined
[03:45] <audreyt> pre2:

[03:45] <audreyt> http://pugs.blogs.com/pre2/Perl6-Pugs-6.2.12.tar.gz

[03:46] *** audreyt changes topic to: Preflight! http://pugs.blogs.com/pre2/Perl6-Pugs-6.2.12.tar.gz | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com | pugscode.org | pugs.kwiki.org

[03:46] <stevan> hey audreyt

[03:47] <audreyt> stevan: hi

[03:47] <svnbot6> r10910 | fglock++ | v6.pm - fixed 'sub' ast

[03:47] <audreyt> going to visit here a bit? :)

[03:47] <audreyt> fglock: do we get a joint release? :)

[03:47] <audreyt> pugs 6.2.12 and 0.01 of v6

[03:49] <stevan> audreyt: are you in chicago?

[03:51] <audreyt> I'm in room 4.2 center

[03:51] <audreyt> want to come over and chat a bit?

[03:51] <stevan> ah,.. with obra

[03:51] <stevan> yes, I would love too

[03:51] <stevan> I will come by in a couple of mintutes

[03:51] <audreyt> woot

[03:52] * stevan has to shake the travel cobwebs from his brain

[03:52] *** cognominal joined
[03:55] *** fglock joined
[03:58] <fglock> audreyt: I'm cleaning up the tests - there are still 3 warnings to go

[03:58] <audreyt> ok

[03:58] <fglock> also s/# TODO/# skip TODO/ which is easier to see

[03:59] <fglock> but it looks ok, tested in windows & linux

[04:00] <fglock> do you think it can be released as-is? would you review v6.pm POD?

[04:02] *** pdcawley joined
[04:02] <svnbot6> r10911 | fglock++ | v6.pm - s/TODO/skip TODO/

[04:11] <fglock> uploaded Pugs-Compiler-Rule-0.06 to cpan - adds Precedence.pm, needed by v6.pm

[04:14] <audreyt> yay

[04:15] <fglock> it's ready, I think - make test emits some warnings, but it pass

[04:15] <svnbot6> r10912 | fglock++ | Pugs::Compiler::Rule - version 0.06; updated v6.pm Makefile.PL

[04:17] <fglock> I should probably sleep before release - this gives some time to fix any problems

[04:18] <audreyt> yup

[04:18] <audreyt> I should do that too

[04:19] <fglock> :)

[04:19] *** pdcawley joined
[04:20] <fglock> later &

[04:20] *** fglock left
[04:26] *** pdcawley joined
[04:32] <dduncan> I just noticed pre2 ... will download and test now ... after a restart, though that power conditioner is coming soon

[04:34] *** justatheory joined
[04:35] *** dduncan left
[04:38] <audreyt> ok...

[04:40] *** Qiang joined
[04:43] *** Qiang joined
[04:43] *** justatheory joined
[04:44] *** dduncan joined
[04:45] *** pdcawley joined
[04:49] <dduncan> Makefile.pl in progress ...

[04:54] <dduncan> 'make' in progress

[05:03] *** buetow joined
[05:06] <svnbot6> r10913 | audreyt++ | * add GHC to path when building pugs

[05:07] *** mtve joined
[05:18] <svnbot6> r10914 | audreyt++ | * repair JS compilation since the macro is no longer needed

[05:22] *** pdcawley joined
[05:23] <audreyt> dduncan: I'll re-upload pre2 with the JS compilation fixes; however that will not affect "make smoke" result

[05:24] <audreyt> so please keep the smoke cycle going

[05:24] <audreyt> I'm going to post on my blog for final round of -pre2 testing

[05:24] <audreyt> and then release it tomorrow during conference

[05:24] <dduncan> okay

[05:24] <audreyt> (reuploaded)

[05:24] <audreyt> (I'm running "nmake test" in Win32 via Parallels now)

[05:24] <dduncan> I see

[05:25] <dduncan> I ordered that program at the pre-order price, so I'll have it when I get an Intel Mac

[05:25] <audreyt> cool

[05:26] <dduncan> is your copy the pre-final or final version?

[05:27] <audreyt> well

[05:27] <svnbot6> r10915 | audreyt++ | * proxy.t: disable the test due to inconsistent reports due to missing feature

[05:27] <dduncan> almost done make (at prelude) ...

[05:28] <audreyt> the one currently at the pre2 url

[05:28] <audreyt> is final unless someone find showstopping bugs in it

[05:28] <audreyt> 2691084 bytes

[05:28] <dduncan> er, my question was about Parallels

[05:29] <audreyt> sha d996445c7c35b3a52e668a3c42dd7c1880ce2a31

[05:29] <audreyt> oh

[05:29] <dduncan> they had a number of free previews

[05:29] <audreyt> sorry. I think it's trial

[05:29] <audreyt> free previews

[05:29] <dduncan> I ordered the first GA at pre-release $40 price

[05:30] <dduncan> now begun 'make smoke'

[05:31] <dduncan> fyi, I ordered a RAM upgrade for my 4 year old machine as well as the power conditioner, so with the then 1.75GB of RAM, I should freely be able to set smoke-concurrent to a number much higher than 4, if it would help significantly (the machine is dual-cpu)

[05:32] <dduncan> but maybe it won't ... going from 2 to 4 had little effect

[05:32] <dduncan> so the smoke should be done in about 2.5 hours

[05:33] <dduncan> fyi, after you've got the final 6.2.12 on CPAN, I will feel free to commit some major improvements to my ext/ modules prior to the hackathon, assuming I have time away from $job

[05:33] <audreyt> excellent

[05:33] <dduncan> among other things, it involves changing Relation into a Role, and altering its interface to allow a wider bredth of implementations

[05:33] <audreyt> the final release is expected to happen same as v6

[05:33] <audreyt> v6.pm

[05:34] <audreyt> and then I can move to Role support

[05:34] <audreyt> as well as other OO things

[05:34] <audreyt> but the speedups was felt as more important

[05:34] <audreyt> (and indeed it may be more helpful in the long run for test-driven development is possible again :))

[05:34] <dduncan> I have a language question along those lines ...

[05:35] <audreyt> yes?

[05:35] <dduncan> if one declares a Role 'Foo', and a Role or Class 'Bar' which does() 'Foo', and then a Class 'Baz' that does() 'Bar' ...

[05:36] <dduncan> I would like in that situation to declare a set of more generic multi-methods in Foo, then let Bar and/or Baz override those with more specific versions ...

[05:36] <dduncan> so that, for example, ...

[05:37] <dduncan> say that 'Foo' declares a method quux() that takes a 'Foo' argument, then Bar declares a quux() that takes a 'Bar' argument, and so on ...

[05:37] <dduncan> could it be said that each successive role is more specific than previous ones ...

[05:38] <dduncan> eg, that Bar is more specific than Foo ...

[05:38] <dduncan> so that if quux() is called with something that does Bar, then Bar's method will be called, otherwise Foo's will, assuming it does Foo?

[05:38] <audreyt> yes.

[05:38] <dduncan> my rationale is this ...

[05:38] <audreyt> you don't need methods

[05:38] <audreyt> just regular multisubs

[05:38] <audreyt> will do

[05:39] <dduncan> sure, and I may do that ...

[05:39] <dduncan> Ideally, all 'Relation' subs can be used like a non-method operator

[05:40] <dduncan> and hence will also have forms that vary in number of arguments, some all the way from zero to infinity (in reason)

[05:40] <audreyt> *wave* *sleep* &

[05:40] <dduncan> okay, I"ll stop

[05:41] <audreyt> maybe ->p6l  :)

[05:41] <audreyt> good night!

[05:41] <dduncan> you too

[05:41] <dduncan> but you answered my main question, assuming that you know what I was asking

[05:44] *** fglock joined
[05:48] *** tup joined
[05:50] *** pdcawley joined
[05:52] <fglock> audreyt, ingy: v6.pm will need an updated Module::Compile release

[05:52] <fglock> just remembered: v6.pm will need an updated Module::Compile release

[05:56] <fglock> heh

[05:58] <fglock> I think v6.pm may already be able to run pil2 - will try later

[06:08] *** tup joined
[06:09] *** pdcawley joined
[06:19] *** pdcawley joined
[06:21] *** fglock left
[06:22] *** tup joined
[06:22] *** kanru joined
[06:35] *** visq joined
[06:45] *** masak joined
[07:06] *** iblechbot joined
[07:06] *** Aankhen`` joined
[07:11] *** kane__ joined
[07:15] *** scw joined
[07:22] *** pdcawley_ joined
[07:25] *** christopher joined
[07:26] *** SM_ax joined
[07:33] *** dasein joined
[07:42] *** pdcawley joined
[07:49] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[08:02] *** mjk joined
[08:20] <dduncan> smoke of pre2 complete and uploaded; results are, under normal runcore, release/darwin, all tests pass, no failures, no unexpected successes

[08:20] <dduncan> runtime 143 minutes on a dual-1ghz-g4 with concurrent=4

[08:21] <dduncan> I look forward to tomorrow's official release of this

[08:21] <dduncan> good night

[08:21] *** dduncan left
[08:29] *** pdcawley joined
[08:30] *** lisppaste3 joined
[08:31] *** Skyddsman joined
[08:51] *** pdcawley joined
[08:56] *** elmex joined
[08:59] *** didie_p6 joined
[09:05] *** pdcawley_ joined
[09:21] *** cognominal joined
[09:24] *** como joined
[09:24] *** pdcawley joined
[09:27] *** kanru joined
[09:34] *** pdcawley joined
[09:38] *** pjmm joined
[09:42] *** pdcawley joined
[09:56] *** drrho joined
[10:01] *** pjmm left
[10:03] *** paultcochrane joined
[10:16] *** pdcawley_ joined
[10:23] <svnbot6> r10916 | Aankhen++ | * ext/libwww-perl/lib/HTTP-Status: aliasing &RC_MOVED_TEMPORARILY to &RC_FOUND should probably be a run-time operation.

[10:29] * Aankh|Clone wonders why / is listed as modified.

[10:29] *** Aankh|Clone is now known as Aankhen``

[10:32] *** cognominal joined
[10:42] *** SM_ax joined
[10:53] <svnbot6> r10917 | audreyt++ | * correct two more test failures on Win32

[11:04] *** chris2 joined
[11:10] *** pdcawley joined
[11:18] *** b_jonas joined
[11:24] *** weinig|sleep is now known as weinig

[11:33] *** weinig is now known as weinig|work

[11:37] *** iblechbot joined
[11:38] *** pdcawley joined
[11:41] <kolibrie> good morning all

[11:42] <webmind> good morning

[11:42] * kolibrie wonders when breakfast is

[11:42] <webmind> before lunch ?

[11:42] <kolibrie> ah, probably

[11:46] *** orafu joined
[11:47] *** cognominal joined
[11:50] *** szbalint joined
[11:52] *** renormalist joined
[12:12] *** marmic joined
[12:28] *** bpphillips joined
[12:35] *** christopher joined
[12:39] <svnbot6> r10918 | audreyt++ | * Make precompiled Test.pm part of the build process to speed up testing.

[12:42] *** Limbic_Region joined
[12:45] <svnbot6> r10919 | renormalist++ | * cperl-mode.el: better indenting for class blocks and proto|multi sub(methods)

[12:45] *** kane-xs joined
[12:46] *** pdcawley joined
[12:48] *** lumi joined
[12:56] *** pdcawley joined
[12:57] *** hcarty joined
[12:58] *** rzoz joined
[13:03] *** shlomif joined
[13:03] <shlomif> Hi all.

[13:04] <shlomif> Any YAPCers here?

[13:04] <shlomif> TimToady: hi.

[13:04] *** shlomif is now known as rindolf

[13:04] <kolibrie> rindolf: yes

[13:04] <rindolf> Hi kolibrie

[13:05] <rindolf> kolibrie: kolibrie is a kind of bird, right?

[13:05] <kolibrie> correct

[13:05] <kolibrie> hummingbird, to be exact

[13:06] <rindolf> kolibrie: OK.

[13:06] <rindolf> kolibrie: are you a girl?

[13:06] <kolibrie> not that I know of

[13:06] <rindolf> kolibrie: OK.

[13:06] <rindolf> kolibrie: so how's YAPC so far?

[13:06] <rindolf> audreyt: here?

[13:07] <kolibrie> nothing has happened yet, as far as I know

[13:07] <kolibrie> except I ate breakfast

[13:07] <rindolf> I don't recall exactly how audreyt makes a living?

[13:07] <rindolf> Something like Erdos I think.

[13:07] <rindolf> kolibrie: OK.

[13:07] <rindolf> What time is it in .il.us?

[13:07] <kolibrie> 8:07

[13:08] <rindolf> kolibrie: I see. Pretty early.

[13:08] <Limbic_Region> rindolf - she is hacker for hire AFAIK

[13:08] <rindolf> TimToady is up.

[13:08] <rindolf> Limbic_Region: I see.

[13:08] <rindolf> Hi Limbic_Region

[13:08] <rindolf> Limbic_Region: are you at YAPC?

[13:08] <Limbic_Region> no rindolf

[13:08] <rindolf> Limbic_Region: OK.

[13:09] <rindolf> Maybe someone should change the subject here. Someone with chanops.

[13:09] <kolibrie> well, except preflight is what is going on

[13:14] <audreyt> yo

[13:14] <kolibrie> good morning audreyt

[13:15] <audreyt> rindolf: I work as a consultant

[13:15] <kolibrie> audreyt: is your room super freezing cold?

[13:15] <audreyt> by-hour telecommuting etc

[13:15] <audreyt> kolibrie: there is a dial on the wall. it's defaulted to freezing

[13:15] <audreyt> rotate it the other way gives you nonfreezing room

[13:16] <kolibrie> I haven't found mine yet

[13:16] * kolibrie looks

[13:16] *** pdcawley joined
[13:16] *** SamB joined
[13:17] <kolibrie> mine must be very hidden, cause I'm not seeing it

[13:17] <audreyt> use the DORM explorer API

[13:18] <kolibrie> I don't think I have that installed

[13:18] <audreyt> mine is on the left side of the shared restroom

[13:18] <rgs> and file a bug report to get saner defaults

[13:18] <kolibrie> in the restroom?  /me looks there

[13:18] <audreyt> no, just outside

[13:18] <audreyt> door.prev_sibling

[13:19] <Limbic_Region> kolibrie - if you are paying for this room then talk to management - service industry should provide service

[13:20] <kolibrie> yep, mine is missing

[13:20] <kolibrie> Limbic_Region: good idea

[13:20] *** rashakil_ joined
[13:21] <kolibrie> audreyt: I might like your help with wireless, too.  I see four routers, but dhclient doesn't ever get a response

[13:23] *** macroron joined
[13:24] *** fglock joined
[13:25] <Limbic_Region> anyone know why make realclean is intermittently necessary to build pugs after check-out despite not having done anything other than checkouts and builds?

[13:26] *** pdcawley joined
[13:27] <audreyt> kolibrie: why are you online then

[13:27] <kolibrie> wall jack

[13:27] <audreyt> kolibrie: I'm on "iit" which requires a login first; check your room handout for how

[13:28] <audreyt> going to the conf now &

[13:28] <kolibrie> I have the handout, which I followed for the wall jack

[13:28] <fglock> audreyt: should I release v6.pm?

[13:28] <kolibrie> audreyt: I'll head there too

[13:28] <fglock> not sure about the state of Module::Compile though

[13:29] <audreyt> fglock: the M::C support for v6 has been restored

[13:29] <audreyt> I'll find ingy today and tell him to release M::C

[13:29] <fglock> I mean, is it in cpan yet?

[13:29] <fglock> ok

[13:29] <fglock> thanks!

[13:29] <audreyt> so mark the dep at 0.16

[13:29] <audreyt> and you'd be good to release

[13:30] <audreyt> 0.00_01 or 0.01 is both fine

[13:30] <audreyt> I'll bbiab

[13:30] <fglock> 0.001 - as it will need a lot of releases :)

[13:31] *** vel joined
[13:31] *** nothingmuch joined
[13:31] *** colomon joined
[13:32] <colomon> pre2 make test:

[13:32] <colomon> Failed Test     Stat Wstat Total Fail  Failed  List of Failed

[13:32] <colomon> -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[13:32] <colomon> t/perl5/class.t    1   256    ??   ??       %  ??

[13:32] <colomon> 1520 subtests skipped.

[13:32] <colomon> Failed 1/521 test scripts, 99.81% okay. 0/9469 subtests failed, 100.00% okay.

[13:33] <colomon> pre make install:ghc-6.4.2: unknown package: pugs-fps-0.7

[13:33] <colomon> Build failed: 256 at util/build_pugs.pl line 99.

[13:41] <hcarty> colomon: Did you build pugs with embedded perl5?  I wrote that test, and it's my first attempt at writing a pugs test, so it's quite possible that I mixed something up

[13:42] *** rindolf joined
[13:42] <rindolf> Hi all.

[13:42] <rindolf> Sorry, got disconnect. Again.

[13:42] <rindolf> audreyt: so what do you consult about?

[13:46] <Limbic_Region> she's on her way to the conference

[13:47] <audreyt> colomon: cool, I've fixed that since

[13:47] <audreyt> hcarty: you put 'use' outside eval

[13:47] <audreyt> which triggered an error

[13:48] <hcarty> ack, gotcha.  Thanks for the tip.

[13:48] <audreyt> colomon: so "make install" still fails? hm

[13:48] <audreyt> which platform?

[13:48] <hcarty> I can submit a fix to the test if it hasn't been yet?

[13:48] <audreyt> hcarty: it's fixed, just svnup

[13:49] <colomon> Suse linux (10?), x86-64

[13:49] <audreyt> ok. will look into it

[13:49] <audreyt> did you use PREFIX or --prefix or anything like that?

[13:52] <audreyt> did you run "make install" as root?

[13:52] <audreyt> colomon: also is this make install on "pre2"?

[13:57] <colomon> I did not use prefix or anything like that.  I ran make install as root.

[13:57] *** pdcawley joined
[13:58] *** frederico joined
[13:59] <audreyt> rindolf: mostly jifty, some haskell, some pugs

[14:00] *** hexmode joined
[14:01] <rindolf> audreyt: I see.

[14:01] <rindolf> audreyt: how long did Jifty exist?

[14:01] <rindolf> audreyt: what was your last day job?

[14:03] <rindolf> After I quit working for szabgab, I played with the idea of becoming a consultant. I placed  a "Hire me" page on my site, but no-one would hire me.

[14:03] <rindolf> I guess you need the right connections.

[14:03] <audreyt> rindolf: the last day job was building a jifty-based project for random financial institutions

[14:03] <rindolf> Well, at least no one would finalise this.

[14:03] <audreyt> the first year is always hard :)

[14:03] *** chris2 joined
[14:03] <rindolf> audreyt: yeah, I guess.

[14:03] <rindolf> audreyt: now I'm working for a PHP 5 shop.

[14:04] <rindolf> It might be somewhat premature for me to become a consultant.

[14:04] <audreyt> it's mostly not connections; it's mostly bringing something --even a prototype-- that address someone's pressing need quickly

[14:04] <audreyt> *nod* it'd be better if you have at least one (or more) gigs lined up before you quit your office job.

[14:04] <rindolf> audreyt: did you give the Portland.pm Jifty presentatin eventually.

[14:05] <audreyt> rindolf: it's on pugs.blogs.com.

[14:05] <rindolf> audreyt: I had a few gigs. My recent ones were WWW-Search-AOL and WWW-Search-MSN.

[14:05] <rindolf> audreyt: OK.

[14:05] <audreyt> colomon: try this one for me

[14:05] <audreyt> colomon: run Makefile.PL again as root and then make install as root

[14:05] <audreyt> (I'll fix, but that will identify the problem)

[14:05] <rindolf> Which I got some money for each for my PayPal account.

[14:05] <colomon> okay, give me a sec

[14:05] <Limbic_Region> consulting in the US can be a very profitable business but it can also be quite dangerous

[14:06] * Limbic_Region has preferred to stay a contractor and/or full-time employee

[14:06] <rindolf> Which reminds me that I'd like to blog about it.

[14:06] <rindolf> Limbic_Region: by "consultant" I also mean "contractor".

[14:06] <rindolf> At least in Israel the terms are diffused.

[14:06] <Limbic_Region> oh - well they are definately different from my experience (in the US)

[14:07] <colomon> audreyt: that appears to have worked!

[14:07] <Limbic_Region> a contractor works for a company who gets gigs for them

[14:07] <audreyt> colomon: okay, thanks, that identified the problem.

[14:07] <audreyt> thanks!

[14:07] <Limbic_Region> a consultant is solo freelance

[14:07] <rindolf> Limbic_Region: hmmm.... I wasn't aware of the difference.

[14:07] <Limbic_Region> a contractor may get benefits like health insurance and time off

[14:07] <svnbot6> r10920 | audreyt++ | * fix "make install" sequence so it doesn't register Pugs as a Haskell lib by default

[14:07] <Limbic_Region> a consultant is completely on their own

[14:08] <audreyt> there are gray areas... consultants morph into contractors and vice versa from time to time

[14:08] <Limbic_Region> in the US - being a government contractor has the best of both worlds (high pay and job security)

[14:08] *** ruz joined
[14:08] <Limbic_Region> audreyt's statement also fits with my experience

[14:08] *** pdcawley joined
[14:10] <b_jonas> I see perl6 will have hashes that can have aggregate hash keys

[14:10] <b_jonas> that's nice

[14:11] <Limbic_Region> IT consultants can make mad mad money in the US but finding gigs can be hard and independently paid for healthcare is uber expensive

[14:11] <audreyt> kolibrie: mystery is explained

[14:11] <audreyt> 16:10 <@waltman> bjo1: there seems to be only one thermostat for each pair of rooms

[14:11] <b_jonas> I hope it will also have an easy way to create a hash whose hash keys are compared by reference, not by contents

[14:11] <audreyt> kolibrie: so contact your roompairmate

[14:11] <fglock> audreyt: I see a lot of .tcc files under t/ - not a big problem, but I don't know where they come from

[14:12] <b_jonas> well, perl5 will now have fieldhashes which is almost the same as this latter thing but also the keys are weak

[14:12] <audreyt> fglock: me tooo, too, that's weird

[14:12] <b_jonas> so I guess perl6 will have to have it too

[14:12] <svnbot6> r10921 | fglock++ | v6.pm - tests cleanly

[14:12] <fglock> otherwise, I guess it's ready for release

[14:13] <audreyt> b_jonas: fieldhash?

[14:14] <b_jonas> audreyt: fieldhashes => http://www.perlmonks.com/?node_id=557420

[14:14] <lambdabot> Title: "Perl core support for inside-out classes"

[14:14] <b_jonas> links to this which gives the technical details => http://www.tu-berlin.de/zrz/mitarbeiter/anno4000/clpm/FieldHash.html

[14:14] <lambdabot> Title: "Hash::Util::FieldHash - Associate references with data"

[14:15] <b_jonas> is this bot new?

[14:16] <Limbic_Region> must be new (to the channel at least) as I have pasted plenty of perlmonks links here without ever having the title coming up like that

[14:26] <fglock> releasing... unless someone got failing tests

[14:30] <fglock> ...done!

[14:41] *** hcarty left
[14:49] <svnbot6> r10922 | audreyt++ | * Normalize the CRLF before calculating checksum; noticed by fglock++

[14:49] *** pdcawley joined
[14:50] <renormalist> Hi all! I'm thinking about ';' after blocks like in gather, map, grep, etc., Is there a rule, when a finishing ';' is needed? Sometimes I thought only in some structures like "while", "for", "if", etc I could omit the ';'. Can I always omit it after such blocks?

[14:51] *** buetow joined
[14:52] <renormalist> And which synopsis contains such "semicolon" stuff?

[14:56] *** justatheory joined
[14:57] <fglock> btw, is this valid: for map {~$_} @x { $_.say }

[14:58] <fglock> # for @x.map:{~$_} { $_.say }

[15:00] <fglock> lunch &

[15:04] *** kanru joined
[15:10] <audreyt> fglock: no, comma is mandatory after {} now

[15:10] <audreyt> for map {},@x { .say }

[15:11] <audreyt> fglock: btw I fixed the .tcc bug

[15:11] <audreyt> look at perl5/M-C

[15:12] <audreyt> (in larry's talk, network connectivity is spotty, may be off and on for a moment)

[15:12] *** pdcawley joined
[15:15] <audreyt> ooh, Hash::Util::FieldHash indeed looks like a Good Layout

[15:15] <audreyt> I like it

[15:15] <svnbot6> r10923 | renormalist++ | cperl-mode.el: indenting+highlighting for async/atomically blocks found

[15:15] <svnbot6> r10923 | renormalist++ |                in pugs/examples.

[15:15] <audreyt> any chance of getting it backported? I wonder

[15:23] *** stevan joined
[15:29] *** lisppaste3 joined
[15:31] *** rzoz joined
[15:35] <audreyt> colomon: I fixed the problem ou reported

[15:35] <audreyt> please retest

[15:36] <audreyt> (r10924)

[15:37] <audreyt> smoke here on macintel and win32 are both fine

[15:37] <svnbot6> r10924 | audreyt++ | * Fix the "make install as roto can't pick up fps" bug

[15:37] <svnbot6> r10924 | audreyt++ |   reported by colomon++ by always re-registering the third-party/

[15:37] <svnbot6> r10924 | audreyt++ |   dependencies as part of "make" instead of "Makefile.PL".

[15:37] <audreyt> so if install works, going to release today

[15:40] <audreyt> s/roto/root/

[15:46] *** Weems joined
[15:46] <rindolf> audreyt: do you read Joel on Software?

[15:47] <audreyt> a bit, not regularly

[15:47] <rindolf> audreyt: I see.

[15:47] <rindolf> audreyt: do you use an RSS reader?

[15:48] <audreyt> Endo

[15:49] *** pdcawley joined
[15:57] <fglock> audreyt: let's make a single announce for Pugs & v6.pm?

[15:58] <audreyt> fglock: yes, definitely

[15:58] <audreyt> ingy is fixing another M::C bug

[15:58] <audreyt> will release soon

[15:58] <audreyt> fglock: please draft the announcement

[15:58] <audreyt> and nopaste it somewhere and I'll pickitup

[15:58] <audreyt> (still in the TPF talk)

[16:03] <fglock> I think v6.pm POD can be used - it's a rewrite of previous announcement attempts

[16:06] <audreyt> 'k

[16:06] *** pdcawley joined
[16:08] *** r0nny joined
[16:08] <svnbot6> r10925 | fglock++ | v6.pm - added README, ChangeLog

[16:08] <r0nny> hi

[16:10] <r0nny> anyone knows how the stats are for the real perl6 ?

[16:10] <bpphillips> stats?

[16:11] <r0nny> how much of it is allready completed

[16:11] <pmichaud> depends on what "real perl6 means"

[16:13] <r0nny> the not-golfing implementation of it made to run directly on parrot

[16:13] <pmichaud> at the moment, we have simple subs in place, but not arrays or hashes

[16:13] <pmichaud> I'm hoping to do that this week

[16:15] <r0nny> how long till there are all the oop things ?

[16:15] <Limbic_Region> r0nny - even "not-golfing implementation of it made to run directly on parrot" can have multiple answers depending on what you mean since there are several initiatives to get p6 targetting parrot

[16:16] *** rzoz_ joined
[16:16] <r0nny> hmm

[16:16] <r0nny> wich one tends to be the fastest one, and wich one is the most developed one ?

[16:17] <Limbic_Region> I would probably say the pugs one is the most developed but that's just guessing

[16:17] <Limbic_Region> and yes, I mean pugs targetting of p6 on parrot

[16:18] <Limbic_Region> not pugs targetting of p6 on p5 or javascript or haskell or any of the other backends

[16:18] <r0nny> hmm

[16:18] <Limbic_Region> as far as speed - the important thing is not how long it takes to convert p6 to something parrot can run but how fast parrot runs it once it does

[16:19] <Limbic_Region> interestingly enough - one route would be p6 to p5 to ponie

[16:19] <r0nny> hmm - i meant runtime speed, not compilation speed, sorry i wasn's specific enough

[16:20] <audreyt> currently our parrot backend doesn't run quite as fast as we'd like

[16:20] <audreyt> trying to fix that too

[16:20] <audreyt> (also trying to improve the haskell-native runtime and the v6/Moose runtime)

[16:21] <Limbic_Region> r0nny - well, that's 3 moving targets

[16:21] <r0nny> hmm

[16:21] <Limbic_Region> 1 - the ever changing p6 specification, 2 - the side targeting parrot - 3, the ever changing parrot

[16:22] <audreyt> you get those "oop" things via Moose/P5 (which is the most complete at the moment), less so on JS/Haskell runtimes, and the Parrot runtime we havn't been exposing the object model to p6 land yet

[16:22] <Limbic_Region> any one of which can impact the others

[16:22] *** hcarty joined
[16:22] <r0nny> hmm

[16:22] <fglock> be careful with "which is the most complete at the moment" :)

[16:22] <audreyt> if you are already coding in p5, I'd suggest playing with Moose.pm first (or P::C::R or one of the Perl6 runtime stuff)

[16:22] <audreyt> but Moose/v6 isn't yet here

[16:23] <audreyt> so you'll have to write in pseudo-p6 syntax in p5 :)

[16:23] <audreyt> fglock: I'm very careful :) Moose/P5 is one thing and Moose/v6.pm is another

[16:23] <fglock> oh you said P5

[16:23] <fglock> ok :)

[16:26] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - I think r0nny is only interested on running on Parrot

[16:26] *** gugod_ joined
[16:26] <Limbic_Region> that is - with as much of p6 as possible

[16:27] *** gugod_ is now known as gugod

[16:28] <r0nny> hmm

[16:29] *** rashakil__ joined
[16:29] <r0nny> btw - anyone here got a p6 lib helps for depency tracking/solving

[16:29] <Limbic_Region> r0nny - I can only guess at your reasons for asking such a question - but they make me think you are interested in writing production code in p6 today

[16:29] <Limbic_Region> that seems like a scary thing to do if that indeed was your reason for asking

[16:29] <r0nny> Limbic_Region: yeah

[16:30] <Limbic_Region> as I said - 3 moving targets, with none of them promising stability any time soon

[16:31] <fglock> audreyt: does it make sense to try to make v6.pm to execute PIL^N ?

[16:31] <fglock> is it meant to be valid p6

[16:31] <r0nny> well - its either perl6, or python - and i'd rather use perl6

[16:31] *** pdcawley joined
[16:36] <Limbic_Region> r0nny - if I were your employer and you were considering using p6 at this time - I would likely tell you to find another job

[16:36] *** lollan joined
[16:36] *** lollan_ joined
[16:37] <Limbic_Region> but don't let that discourage you - pioneers and pilgrims are very valuable indeed

[16:37] * Limbic_Region wanders off for lunch

[16:38] <svnbot6> r10926 | fglock++ | Pugs-Compiler-Perl6 - s/compiler/experimental compiler/

[16:40] <r0nny> Limbic_Region: its a fun project - i like neat stuff for my own work, i'd never consider perl6 at this point, if it was important work for a employe

[16:40] *** Ymmv joined
[16:40] <fglock> v6.pm POD - http://search.cpan.org/~fglock/v6-pugs-0.001/lib/v6.pm

[16:40] <lambdabot> Title: "v6 - an experimental Perl 6 implementation (under way) - search.cpan.org"

[16:43] <svnbot6> r10927 | fglock++ | v6.pm - added 'abstract' to Makkefile.PL

[16:55] <Limbic_Region> r0nny - I understood "you are interested in writing production code" to not mean "fun project" but something for professional work - sorry we got our wires crossed

[16:55] <svnbot6> r10928 | fglock++ | v6.pm - added links to dev.perl.org, parrotcode, pugscode

[16:55] * Limbic_Region enjoys his food

[16:55] *** jabbot joined
[17:00] *** chris2 joined
[17:03] *** shachaf joined
[17:05] *** hexmode joined
[17:10] <audreyt> hm, to backport the fieldhash we need to override Perl_sv_kill_backrefs

[17:10] <audreyt> not impossible, but probably too costly

[17:10] <audreyt> oh well.

[17:10] <audreyt> # http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/perl/porters/205608

[17:10] <lambdabot> Title: "[PATCH] Hash::Util::FieldHash | Perl | porters"

[17:10] <rgs> yes ?

[17:11] <audreyt> rgs: I just pointed fieldhash to stevan as a possible Moose layout

[17:11] <audreyt> thinking about the best trategy to maintain some compat with <5.9 perl

[17:11] <rgs> that won't go in 5.8.x

[17:11] <r0nny> Limbic_Region: i want to dig together a build system for use on one of my projects needs a build-modularity semilar to the linux/bsd kernel

[17:11] <audreyt> rgs: yup, so either some emulation

[17:11] <audreyt> or some XS loadable magic

[17:11] <audreyt> the latter is actually quite hard

[17:12] <audreyt> so probably emulation

[17:12] <audreyt> lunch, bbiab

[17:12] *** esammer joined
[17:12] <rgs> yep

[17:27] *** penk joined
[17:30] *** pdcawley joined
[17:31] *** frederico joined
[17:31] *** jabbot joined
[17:32] *** visq_ joined
[17:35] *** hcarty left
[17:44] *** Eimi joined
[17:57] *** larsen joined
[18:04] *** rzoz_ is now known as rzoz

[18:09] *** DaGo joined
[18:10] <visq> hi; I was looking at multim. dispatch and the current behaviour seems a bit ... strange to me

[18:10] <visq> maybe I didn't get something, but what happens  if no multi declaration matches ?

[18:10] <visq> called "distance Infinity" in A12

[18:11] <visq> no tests for that in t/subroutines/multi_sub.t ?

[18:11] <pasteling> "visq" at 62.178.138.213 pasted "Multimethod Dispatch - No Match" (9 lines, 329B) at http://sial.org/pbot/17993

[18:12] <audreyt> hi

[18:12] <audreyt> when there's no match, an error should be thrown

[18:13] *** pdcawley joined
[18:13] <visq> Should that be in the test file ?

[18:14] <audreyt> however, it's not specced if strings with numbers are in fact coercible to numbers

[18:14] <audreyt> for the purpose of dispatch

[18:14] <audreyt> so pugs tries a last-ditch coercion

[18:14] <audreyt> but whether (or how) to do that is unspecced

[18:14] <visq> String to Rat ?

[18:14] <visq> s/String/Str

[18:14] <audreyt> it went to Int I think

[18:15] *** prefiks joined
[18:15] <wolverian> type inference with implicit coercion oughta be fun..

[18:16] <audreyt> indeed, indeed.

[18:16] <audreyt> the JS way is to distinguish

[18:16] <audreyt> sub f ($x does Int) { ... }

[18:16] <audreyt> from

[18:16] <audreyt> sub f ($x as Int) { ... }

[18:16] <audreyt> the latter triggers a coercion call if needed

[18:16] <wolverian> which is Int $x?

[18:17] <audreyt> the first

[18:17] <wolverian> works for me

[18:17] <audreyt> but again, this is unspeccedland

[18:17] <visq> ok, but for multis ? you want to choose the best coercion ?

[18:17] <visq> sounds funny

[18:17] <audreyt> visq: there is no best coercion...

[18:17] <audreyt> if it can be coerced into multiple things

[18:17] <audreyt> then it's an error too

[18:18] <audreyt> unless it can be resolved at marking a variant as default (unimplemented)

[18:18] <visq> ok. in the example I posted the Str was coerced to Rat instead of Int (i think)

[18:19] <audreyt> it says 1 no?

[18:19] <visq> yes (calling ($f+1).int in the Rat multi)

[18:19] <audreyt> oh right. sorr

[18:19] <audreyt> y

[18:19] <audreyt> I misparsed

[18:20] <visq> not a very sensible example, though

[18:20] <audreyt> the reason is our distance algorithm is currently weird

[18:20] <audreyt> if it can't be upcasted

[18:20] <audreyt> (Str isn't Rat or Int)

[18:20] <audreyt> then it's converted to the common base

[18:20] <visq> which is Num I guess

[18:20] <audreyt> no, Str isn't Num either

[18:21] <audreyt> so it's the scalar value basetype

[18:21] <audreyt> and then it does downcast

[18:21] <audreyt> encoutering Rat first

[18:21] <audreyt> and go with it

[18:21] <visq> :)

[18:21] <audreyt> again, this is completely unspecced, so this implementation is purely conjectural

[18:22] <visq> maybe an error would be best until specced ?

[18:22] <visq> or a test :unspecced ?

[18:24] <audreyt> or a p6l post :)

[18:24] <audreyt> I think ew should implement the same semantics as this

[18:24] <audreyt> http://www.mozilla.org/js/language/js20/core/concepts.html#type

[18:24] <lambdabot> Title: "JavaScript 2.0 Concepts"

[18:24] <audreyt> also this

[18:24] <audreyt> http://www.mozilla.org/js/language/js20/libraries/types.html

[18:24] <lambdabot> Title: "JavaScript 2.0 Types"

[18:25] <audreyt> where implicit coversion ("of") and explicit conversion ("as") are distinguished

[18:25] <audreyt> and then throw in the Any type

[18:25] <audreyt> to stand for the "typechecker, stay away from this"

[18:25] <audreyt> type

[18:25] <audreyt> which is the default for all values with no annotations

[18:26] <audreyt> ...which is distinctly VB

[18:26] <audreyt> only that the annotation attitude is reversed

[18:26] *** vel joined
[18:26] <audreyt> (they require explicit "as Object" annotation to get dynamic typechecker-stayaway variables)

[18:27] *** gaal joined
[18:28] <gaal> moose!

[18:28] <kolibrie> moose!

[18:28] *** cognominal joined
[18:28] <gaal> the wonders of high-latency and high packet loss networks!

[18:28] <audreyt> moose!

[18:28] * audreyt has quite a bit of S* commits for TimToady to review

[18:29] <audreyt> but release 6.2.12 first, today, for real

[18:29] <audreyt> fglock: so should i just take v6.pm synopsis and run with it?

[18:29] <audreyt> (for the announcement)

[18:30] <gaal> audrey, will there be some hackage this afternoon somewhere?

[18:30] <audreyt> I don't know, do you want one?

[18:30] <audreyt> where are you?

[18:30] <gaal> sure, why not

[18:30] <gaal> releasathon

[18:31] <gaal> I'm in the alumni classroom

[18:31] <gaal> with nothingmuch, sevan, kolibrie

[18:31] <audreyt> say hi to rkinyon

[18:31] <gaal> he's pondering the lighting, I believe

[18:31] <audreyt> I think I've grokked ::Deep, so I'm harrassing clkao instead

[18:31] <gaal> getting ready to talk

[18:32] <audreyt> maybe meet at the sofa place you said hi to me after lembark's talk?

[18:32] <Limbic_Region> anyone know what file(s) on an AIX server to look for to tell named not to try and go to the internet for SOA outside of internal domain?

[18:33] <gaal> sure, there's a some 'lectricity there

[18:33] * Limbic_Region would have assumed named.conf or data.conf or reverse.data.conf 

[18:33] <gaal> l~r, no, but I'm sure you can find it in SMIT?

[18:33] * gaal hasn't been on AIX for, ugh, eight years

[18:33] <audreyt> aaaaargh *flashback of painful SMIT fights*

[18:33] *** bernhard joined
[18:34] <Limbic_Region> gaal - unfortunately I don't have access to the box - an admin is claiming they can't find it and I was being asked to confirm that not finding the file should be expected

[18:34] <Limbic_Region> I don't think it should be expected but I am not familiar with AIX (only HPUX, Solaris)

[18:35] <gaal> l~r, I think you really need to do things via the management system on AIX otherwise your changes are ephemeral

[18:36] <Limbic_Region> bah - I thought *nix was supposed to not try and be so "helpful"

[18:37] <Limbic_Region> thanks - anyway - please return to your normal scheduled programming

[18:38] <gaal> AIX just exposes a unixy interface. it's helpful sometimes not to try to use it. :)

[18:42] *** bpphillips left
[18:43] *** bpphillips joined
[18:46] *** pdcawley_ joined
[18:49] <gaal> nothingmuch: ping

[18:50] <nothingmuch> pongf

[18:52] <gaal> heya, see /msg

[18:52] <audreyt> I don't see it

[18:52] <audreyt> have you regnicked?

[18:52] <gaal> audreyt: it was to nothingmuch :)

[18:52] <audreyt> heh :)

[18:53] <gaal> .oO( merged antlered audreyt nothingmuch)

[18:55] *** pdcawley_ joined
[18:57] <fglock> audreyt: re announcement - v6 synopsis is ok, I think

[18:57] <fglock> bbiab &

[18:59] <audreyt> ok... anyone up for a quick "make test" on http://perlcabal.org/~audreyt/tmp/Perl6-Pugs-6.2.12.tar.gz ?

[19:00] <audreyt> if it tests clean I'll release it :)

[19:01] <obra> Grabbing

[19:01] <obra> not usre I have a new enough haskell

[19:01] <audreyt> danke

[19:01] <audreyt> 6.4.1 will do

[19:01] <audreyt> in fact it's the only thiing I havn't tested yet ;)

[19:01] <audreyt> (so far all smokers are on 6.4.2 it seems)

[19:02] <gaal> I would but a smoke takes too long on this box

[19:02] <audreyt> that's fine

[19:08] *** pdcawley_ joined
[19:16] *** dduncan joined
[19:18] <audreyt> ok, I'm in the lobby now

[19:18] <audreyt> the power strip seems a bit occupied

[19:18] <audreyt> in any case I'll wait for the lambdamoose to come and maybe find a new location

[19:19] <kolibrie> come to our corner room

[19:19] <audreyt> where's that?

[19:19] <kolibrie> south west?

[19:19] <gaal> audrey, stay put

[19:20] * Limbic_Region imagines mice in a maze with walkie-talkies

[19:21] <gaal> a maze of walkie talkies, all alike

[19:23] *** SamB joined
[19:28] <Aankhen``> audreyt: What revision is the release?

[19:28] <audreyt> Aankhen``: get the url

[19:29] <Aankhen``> Bleh, okay.

[19:29] <audreyt>  http://perlcabal.org/~audreyt/tmp/Perl6-Pugs-6.2.12.tar.gz

[19:31] <Aankhen``> I guess pre-compiling Test.pm would make sense...

[19:32] <audreyt> ...that's now done by default as part of "make pugs"

[19:32] <Aankhen``> Ah.

[19:32] <Aankhen``> How come?

[19:33] <Aankhen``> I mean, is it necessary to do it by default? o_O

[19:34] *** jiing joined
[19:34] *** f0rth joined
[19:35] *** _SamB_ joined
[19:36] *** _SamB_ is now known as SamB

[19:36] *** baest joined
[19:39] <dduncan> so my pre2 smoked with seemingly perfect results yesterday

[19:39] <dduncan> and how's things today?

[19:39] *** _visq joined
[19:50] <audreyt> should be fine

[19:50] <svnbot6> r10929 | audreyt++ | * gaal++ notices that there's :todo<spec> and :todo<hardfail>

[19:50] <svnbot6> r10929 | audreyt++ |   markers; fix them to say :todo<unspecced> and :todo<bug>

[19:50] <audreyt> going to release after obra's smoke finished

[19:53] *** f0rth joined
[19:54] <spinclad> I'll try it too

[19:55] <spinclad> btw Sunday's smoke (pre2 +-) was 5 hr where Saturday's (pre1) was 3:30 here

[19:56] <spinclad> don't know what was different but maybe Test didn't get precompiled on Sunday

[19:56] <audreyt> yup

[19:57] <spinclad> (Saturday: r10874, Sunday: r10891)

[19:58] <audreyt> should be back to normal smoketime now

[19:58] *** xerox joined
[20:01] <audreyt> so, anyone running make test?

[20:03] *** Zemyl joined
[20:05] * Aankhen`` is.

[20:05] <Aankhen``> I'm on t/builtins/io/io.t so far.

[20:05] <Aankhen``> io_edge_error_cases.t now.

[20:05] <Aankhen``> And moving on...

[20:07] <fglock> audreyt: about the v6.pm release note - I've been asked "it doesn't pass 100% tests, right? how much is actually implemented?" - it passes about 90% of 01-sanity.t/ tests; it currently implements a thin semantics layer, which means a non-oo, untyped subset of Perl6

[20:10] <spinclad> audreyt: not for a while, make will take a couple hours here

[20:10] <audreyt> okie

[20:10] <audreyt> "it implements perl 4."

[20:10] <audreyt> (or something like that)

[20:11] *** marmic joined
[20:15] <spinclad> "Current version is 0"

[20:15] <spinclad> (/usr/bin/perl -Iinc util/version_h.pl src/Pugs/pugs_version.h)

[20:16] <audreyt> right

[20:16] <audreyt> which is fine

[20:16] <audreyt> (it's used to determine the display of pugs -v only)

[20:16] <audreyt> for releases we don't display svn revs

[20:17] *** nnunley joined
[20:17] *** marmic joined
[20:18] <gaal> should this work?

[20:18] <gaal> <a b c> >>.say

[20:19] <gaal> ?eval <a b c> >>.say

[20:19] *** evalbot_10889 is now known as evalbot_10929

[20:19] <evalbot_10929> Error:  unexpected ">" expecting comment, operator, postfix conditional, postfix loop, postfix iteration, ";" or end of input

[20:19] <audreyt> yup, but not currently parsed

[20:19] <gaal> thanks

[20:19] *** nnunley joined
[20:19] <svnbot6> r10930 | audreyt++ | * This be Pugs, version 6.2.12.

[20:20] <gaal> whoa!

[20:20] * gaal cheers

[20:21] <audreyt> :)))

[20:21] * Aankhen`` breaks out the pom-poms!

[20:21] <clkao> hurrah!!!

[20:21] <clkao> is it beer time yet

[20:21] <spinclad> champagne

[20:21] <Aankhen``> Gimme a P!  Gimme a U!  Gimme a G!  Gimme an S!  WHAT'S THAT SPELL?  I dunno either. :-(

[20:21] *** audreyt changes topic to: 6.2.12 released! | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com | pugscode.org | pugs.kwiki.org

[20:21] <audreyt> PUGS!

[20:21] <Aankhen``> Yay!

[20:23] <dduncan> the pugs is dead, long live the pugs

[20:24] *** marmic joined
[20:24] * audreyt starts writing announcement

[20:24] <spinclad> a toast!  'to absent friends' ... no, that's not it...  'in conclave assembled, in meatspace and farspace, may the pugs let us golf till the perl6 is born'

[20:24] * Aankhen`` applauds!

[20:24] *** Zemyl joined
[20:24] * Aankhen`` raises a glass.

[20:25] <fglock> a toast!

[20:25] *** _bernhard joined
[20:25] <audreyt> spinclad: may I quote you on that in the announcement?

[20:26] <spinclad> sure!

[20:26] <dduncan> so is anyone going to be interjecting into a YAPC::NA talk that the pugs has landed, or something?

[20:26] * spinclad counts on it

[20:27] <dduncan> I remember at OSCON last year that someone interjected into Ingy's (?) talk to quote audreyt's comment on this list

[20:27] <dduncan> they beat me to it, alas

[20:28] <spinclad> audreyt: s/farspace/far/ and it scans a bit better maybe

[20:28] <audreyt> sure

[20:30] <clkao> is anyone working on making 'use Test' work in -BPerl5 ?

[20:30] <audreyt> certainly fglock

[20:30] <audreyt> that's I think his next target

[20:31] <clkao> fglock: what's the plan?

[20:32] *** bpphillips left
[20:32] <audreyt> ingy++

[20:32] <audreyt> ingy++

[20:32] <audreyt> fglock: new M::C is on CPAN now

[20:32] <audreyt> fglock: you going to do another v6.pm?

[20:33] <fglock> audreyt: it already requires the next version

[20:34] <fglock> requires('Module::Compile' => '0.16');

[20:35] <fglock> clkao: I'm working through 01-sanity - it's imported to v6.pm t/

[20:35] <audreyt> cool

[20:35] *** marmic joined
[20:35] <clkao> oh wow

[20:35] <clkao> mostly passing, i am seeing 08 failing because of use()

[20:36] <audreyt> particle: speed up, v6-pugs is about to beat parrot/perl6 :)

[20:36] <audreyt> (on getting Test.pm to pass)

[20:37] <audreyt> oh wait, he's not here

[20:38] <fglock> clkao: the few remaining tests require more runtime support - multis, more complex signatures, and a few fixes in the grammar

[20:39] <fglock> btw, if you re-run the tests you can see the actual speed, as the compiled code gets cached

[20:41] <svnbot6> r10931 | ingy++ |  r713@ingy:  ingy | 2006-04-14 23:47:37 -0500

[20:41] <svnbot6> r10931 | ingy++ |  Fixed so that pod2html works

[20:41] <svnbot6> r10932 | ingy++ |  r714@ingy:  ingy | 2006-04-15 06:42:01 -0500

[20:41] <svnbot6> r10932 | ingy++ |  S26 first sweep of changes

[20:41] *** rashakil_ joined
[20:43] <fglock> of course, if someone simplified Test.pm, that would help a lot :)

[20:45] <fglock> ingy   thanks!

[20:46] <clkao> fglock: ya

[20:46] <fglock> (my plus-plus shows as spaces for some reason)

[20:49] <dduncan> so, to clarify, is r10930 the actual 6.2.12 release for CPAN now, with later commits not going in, like ingy's last 2?

[20:49] <clkao> fglock: so for use Test in 08, test.pm has to be compiled to somewhere to avoid v5 collision right?

[20:50] <dduncan> if that is so, then I'll commit a template for the subsequent revision to the changelog

[20:52] <spinclad> dduncan: i believe you have it's essence true

[20:53] <spinclad> (ack! s/it's/its/)

[20:53] <dduncan> okay, so I will commit post-6.2.12 changes shortly

[20:55] <dduncan> I'm going to assume the next release will be 6.28.0, and that it won't happen in June

[20:56] <dduncan> if not, the figure can be adjusted

[20:56] <spinclad> safe bet /me thinks

[20:57] <spinclad> perl6 is getting ready to eat a Moose

[20:57] <svnbot6> r10933 | Darren_Duncan++ | updated ChangeLog to add a template for the next release, probably 6.28.0

[20:59] <spinclad> (present Møøsen excepted. please excuse the language)

[21:09] <svnbot6> r10934 | Sage++ | =~ -> ~~ now correctly applied, as well as s:P5:g///. $hash{someword} now translating to %hash<someword>. Added support for some escaped characters in uni strings, but still very much beta (ugly code). TestInit.pm.yml now correctly parses as presented, chomp modifier support still needed.

[21:14] *** theorbtwo joined
[21:16] <fglock> clkao: Test.pm should be look for in PERL6LIB env variable

[21:16] <fglock> looked

[21:17] <Aankhen``> Er... I hate to say this, but I've got 9 subtests failing.

[21:18] <pasteling> "Aankhen``" at 203.101.1.39 pasted "make test output" (8 lines, 548B) at http://sial.org/pbot/18005

[21:22] <fglock> clkao: and 'use perl5:Test' is a plain perl5 'use'

[21:22] <clkao> *nod*

[21:22] <clkao> of course ;)

[21:22] <clkao> which is pretty much what it is doing now. we just need to fix the exporting thing

[21:23] *** dasein joined
[21:29] <Aankhen``> Well, I'm off to sleep.

[21:29] <Aankhen``> Congrats on the release. :-)

[21:29] <Aankhen``> G'night.

[21:30] <fglock> clkao: just setting @INC and then calling a plain 'use' should work, since v6.pm takes care of the compilation

[21:32] <fglock> $work.die &

[21:34] <svnbot6> r10935 | ingy++ |  r1931@ingy:  ingy | 2006-06-26 15:29:00 -0500

[21:34] <svnbot6> r10935 | ingy++ |  perl5/

[21:34] *** cognominal joined
[21:37] *** fglock left
[21:41] *** zgrim joined
[21:44] <zgrim> hello folks, is ghc 6.4.1 good/recent enough for building pugs ?

[21:44] <spinclad> yes

[21:44] <spinclad> though 6.4.2 or 6.5 would be better if you can get them

[21:45] <zgrim> i'm trying to build it like this: GHC=/usr/bin/ghc-6.4.1 PATH=/home/zgrim/src/perl6/parrot:$PATH PUGS_EMBED="perl5 parrot" perl Makefile.PL

[21:45] <zgrim> but i'm getting the strange: make[1]: Entering directory `/home/zgrim/src/perl6/pugs/ext/File-Find'

[21:45] <zgrim> Perl v6.0.0 required--this is only v5.8.8, stopped at lib/File/Find.pm line 3.

[21:46] <zgrim> this only happens on my desktop machine, the laptop, which is also debian sid, built pugs just fine

[21:47] <spinclad> i haven't seen that failure myself (on debian sarge/etch mix)

[21:47] <spinclad> sounds like some perl6 code with 'use v6' in it got fed to perl5

[21:48] <zgrim> can you see the reason why this would happen. i'm not familiar enough with pugs' build system

[21:51] <spinclad> not offhand.  i see that ext/File-Find/lib/File/Find.pm does use v6...

[21:52] <spinclad> you have run '... perl Makefile.PL' and then 'make', yes?

[21:52] <zgrim> yes, ofc

[21:53] <spinclad> let me check my build logs

[21:53] <zgrim> i did see that File::Find requires v6 :), i was asking what could be wrong there in the build system though...

[21:53] <zgrim> or maybe in my setup

[21:55] <spinclad> odd.. the only thing my make does in ext/File-Find is

[21:55] <spinclad> cp lib/File/Find.pm /data/perl6/pugs/build/trunk/pugs/blib6/lib/File/Find.pm

[21:56] <spinclad> and later, in testing, the test harness runs ext/Find-Find/t/01-use.5

[21:56] <spinclad> s/5/t/

[21:57] *** rindolf joined
[21:57] <rindolf> Hi all.

[22:02] <pasteling> "zgrim" at 195.7.14.25 pasted "build regarding File::Find v6 || V5" (12 lines, 725B) at http://sial.org/pbot/18006

[22:02] *** hcarty joined
[22:06] *** unobe joined
[22:11] *** unobe left
[22:15] <audreyt> zgrim: you have "lib" in your PERL5LIB somehow?

[22:15] <audreyt> or -Ilib in your flags?

[22:16] <zgrim> ]$ env | grep -i perl5lib

[22:16] <zgrim> PERL5LIB=:/home/zgrim/lib/perl5:./lib:/home/zgrim/lib/perl5:./lib

[22:16] <zgrim> aha, i see now

[22:17] <zgrim> thanks

[22:20] <nothingmuch> 1/win13

[22:23] <nothingmuch> does anybody know how to run a BOF?

[22:24] <nothingmuch> does anybody want to volunteer

[22:24] <nothingmuch> (to run it)

[22:29] *** Limbic_Region joined
[22:31] *** pjcj joined
[22:36] <audreyt> miyagawa: fixed

[22:37] <audreyt> nothingmuch: I'm seeing

[22:37] <audreyt> --- ! >-

[22:37] <audreyt> { 42;

[22:37] <audreyt> }

[22:38] <audreyt> not !perl/code

[22:38] <audreyt> from the trunk

[22:38] <audreyt> of perlsyck

[22:40] <audreyt> nvm, fixed.

[22:40] <xerox__> Teh coding machine.

[22:41] *** rashakil__ joined
[22:42] *** gaal joined
[22:42] *** Ymmv joined
[22:43] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - on a machine where I can do make test - is it still needed?

[22:46] *** mako132_ joined
[22:47] *** ingyfoo joined
[22:48] <gaal> l~r: see topic...

[22:48] *** ingy joined
[22:51] <Limbic_Region> gaal - thanks

[22:51] <Limbic_Region> would have replied sooner except my kbd inexplicably stopped functioning

[22:51] <Limbic_Region> or at lease, it was originally inexplicable

[22:51] <Limbic_Region> how exactly a kbd becomes unplugged mid keystroke is beyond me

[22:51] <nothingmuch> audreyt: i have no idea what that was

[22:52] <gaal> whee, Best.pm uploaded to PAUSE

[22:52] <kolibrie> gaal++

[22:53] <gaal> }:)

[22:53] <nothingmuch> Best.pm?

[22:53] <audreyt> the best module

[22:53] <audreyt> well, best perl module, anyway

[22:53] <gaal> nothingmuch: use Best [ qw/YAML::Syck YAML ];

[22:54] <gaal> but with another / somewhere

[22:54] <nothingmuch> awesome

[22:55] <gaal> hopefully Module::Compilable

[22:55] <nothingmuch> how so?

[22:56] <gaal> presumably Best.pm isn't going to be core, so if I don't know if my run site has YAML::Syck, I don't know if it has Best, either :)

[22:57] <gaal> this module has two usages: XS-vs-non, and special-vs-core (e.g. CGI::Simple / CGI)

[22:57] <gaal> well, except for the general fallback (e.g. the yaml example)

[23:02] <clkao> sub ::Y  { require YAML::Syck; YAML::Syck::Dump(@_) }

[23:02] <clkao> "You'll never see me"; # End of Best

[23:04] <gaal> oops.

[23:04] <gaal> 0.02 coming up :)

[23:05] <gaal> well, the you'll never see me is correct, because we propagate the successfully loaded module's return value.

[23:05] <gaal> ::Y and ::YY are just favorite debugging tools :)

[23:05] <clkao> ya, i just found it funny, not saying it's wrong ;)

[23:06] <audreyt> nothingmuch: you caused stack corruption

[23:06] <nothingmuch> audreyt: where?

[23:06] <nothingmuch> trunk is a bit broken right now

[23:06] <audreyt> line 694

[23:06] <clkao> audreyt: i am going to have dinner with sussman and kfogel, want to come?

[23:06] <audreyt>  syck_emit_scalar(e, OBJOF("tag:perl:code:"), SCALAR_UTF8, 0, 0, 0, SvPV_nolen(text), len-1);

[23:06] <nothingmuch> what does that do?

[23:06] <audreyt> at this point "tag" is set to '{{?' on my computer

[23:15] *** unobe joined
[23:17] <unobe> i'm having a problem building the latest Perl6-Pugs-6.2.12.tar.gz

[23:18] <unobe> any pointers?

[23:19] <pasteling> "unobe" at 198.37.24.106 pasted "build failing with latest Perl6-Pugs-6.2.12.tar.gz" (78 lines, 5K) at http://sial.org/pbot/18008

[23:21] <svnbot6> r10936 | clkao++ | TODO for now.

[23:22] <unobe> i searched the logs and only found two instances of others being given similar errors, but running ./Setup --configure user didn't work

[23:23] *** hcarty left
[23:40] <unobe> i mistyped actually. i tried ./Setup configure --user, but to no avail.

[23:45] <unobe> nm...i forgot to change permission for ~/.ghc (I have to run root to make install)

[23:45] <svnbot6> r10937 | fglock++ | v6.pm - the emitter supports ` %ENV<PERL6LIB>[].push( '.' ); `

[23:46] *** unobe left
