[00:00] * theorbtwo is multipragmatic, but often prefers functional to OO.

[00:00] * TimToady notices it's 2am here, and he is still recuperating from a cold, so maybe he ought to crawl off to bed...

[00:00] <theorbtwo> (I really hate it when modules force me to subclass them; I'd much prefer to provide them subrefs much of the time.)

[00:01] <Juerd> TimToady: Good night

[00:01] <theorbtwo> G'night.

[00:01] <cognominal> G'night

[00:01] <TimToady> thx -oo-

[00:01] <Juerd> theorbtwo: Forced subclassing becomes much less of a problem when we have first class classes, that can be non-global.

[00:02] <Juerd> Though I think that forced does-ing will become more popular, which would make it nicely what you want

[00:03] <Juerd> Because you can then have things per-object

[00:03] <Juerd> (More easily, anyway)

[00:03] <theorbtwo> I know.

[00:03] <Juerd> Oh my, this is one of those moments when you start to realise how hard choosing an interface will be :(

[00:03] <theorbtwo> I like this idea.  Objects I'm only ever going to have one of annoy me.

[00:03] <putter> in that context, the question is "what to do with pos?".  you don't want a one-to-one relationship with string objects.  you'd like to be able to choose here I'm using this pos, and their I'm using some other.  simultaneously, without interference effects.  you could do that in the... "high sugar" regexp approach, because in $_.pos, the $_ neednt really be the string, but rather a parser state wrapper.  but that

[00:03] <Juerd> It used to be: wrap or subclass...

[00:03] <putter> gets less appealing as the layer of sugar thins.

[00:04] <Juerd> Now, the options are almost infinite.

[00:04] <putter> good night hackathon team &

[00:05] <theorbtwo> It would seem that we want a regex operation that says "this assertation must be at this position".

[00:05] <theorbtwo> (Having it as a builtin will let it be optimized the hell out of.)

[00:05] <Juerd> I'm off too

[00:05] <Juerd> Good night

[00:06] <putter> Juerd: &

[00:07] <putter> theorbtwo: so $str.pos+=1  is a unit error? ;)  one needs $str.pos += 1 graph;

[00:08] <theorbtwo> Exactly, putter.  It's all about units.

[00:08] <theorbtwo> The hard bit is that the relation between the units depends on the quantity being measured.

[00:09] <theorbtwo> Well, $str.pos+=1 is a unit error unless you're OK with implicit units (which should probably be a lexical pragma).

[00:10] <theorbtwo> (5`inches)+1 == 6`inches is probably OK in -e code.

[00:10] <putter> does pos have multiple tracks, so it can be at pos 2 small unit, but instead of that being 1/2 big unit, in big units it looks like 0?  or 1?  or not? ;)

[00:10] <Juerd> 5" should be possible, parse-wise :)

[00:10] <Juerd> But I'm sleeping

[00:10] <Juerd> afk

[00:10] <theorbtwo> Yeah, I think it's time for me to do that too.

[00:11] <putter> "inches"?  what are these "inches" of which you speak? ;)

[00:12] <putter> but that still leaves the issue of associating a $str with multiple pos'es.

[00:12] <putter> theorbtwo: good night :)

[00:12] <Juerd> Oh my... .pos in inches.

[00:12] <putter> picas!

[00:12] *** Blicero_ joined
[00:13] <Juerd> Which enables theorbtwo's "directly under" for any font...

[00:13] <Juerd> Scary.

[00:13] <theorbtwo> I don't think it's really an issue.  I'm wondering why anybody wants to only associate it with one.

[00:13] <Juerd> Okay, I will turn my monitor off now.

[00:13] <putter> rather #scary

[00:13] *** kanru joined
[00:13] <theorbtwo> Perhaps I just need to backlog more.

[00:13] <theorbtwo> ...but not right now.  Right now is time for bed.

[00:14] <theorbtwo> ...even though it's not 2am here.

[00:14] <putter> theorbtwo: the desire is to have a "zero"-context .pos.   ie, for  pugs -e '"a".pos'  to be meaningful, even if the object returned by .pos is opaque.

[00:15] <putter> I'm not sure anyone is arguing there *should* only be one.  just havent found a nice way to say $str.pos and have it not be.

[00:17] <audreyt> sigh... ETOOMANYSUBPROJECTSGOINGON

[00:17] <audreyt> there's no way I can finish journaling them

[00:17] <putter> audreyt: a simplification: time to sleep. :)

[00:17] <audreyt> at least not tonight

[00:18] <audreyt> but I did post something just 5 minutes ago :)

[00:18] <audreyt> have fun... see you tomorrow :) &

[00:18] <putter> btw, I hope you guys don't get _too_ sucked into #irc.  it's so much less efficient than one-on-one in person.  which is of course the real value of where you're at.

[00:18] <putter> bye &

[00:19] <audreyt> putter: don't worry, we are all in the same cabin

[00:19] <audreyt> and there's always 4+ voice channels that goes on

[00:20] <putter> ok

[00:20] <putter> sleep well &

[00:20] <audreyt> oh, btw, & means "runs in the background", so it's usually (at least in #perl where I learned it) only used by the person who is about to disappear :)

[00:20] <audreyt> but otoh, it can also mean "succubus"

[00:20] <audreyt> or any other demon NPC

[00:21] <audreyt> which can appear anywhere in the dungeon.

[00:21] <putter> hmm... thought it was "wave"... ah well...

[00:21] <audreyt> (clearly I'm out of my mind and needs to sleep. good night. :))

[00:21] <audreyt> &

[00:22] <obra> sleep well

[00:25] *** frederico_ joined
[00:32] *** kcwu joined
[00:38] <putter> re "because switching packages in the middle of a file is disallowed", ouch.

[00:40] <putter> err, so " $x=1; package Foo; $y=1; " is no longer legal?  because the $x is in Main, and the $y in Foo...

[00:45] <putter> "use v6;  package Foo;" has use() run in Main.  only allowed to _explicitly_ switch packages _once_?  And only from Main?  and can't get back?  (without using package Foo {...})   maybe I'm missing something.  this would also mean source files can't be join("package main;")'ed any more.

[00:47] <putter> ah well.  motion, movement, activity, yay :)

[00:48] <Kattana> yay~~

[00:52] <putter> sigh.  xml is nicely nested and all, and great for hierarchical structures, but line oriented work can be soo much simpler and more convenient, not having to worry about closing all those "}"^H^H^H "</foo>"s.

[00:55] <ingy> audreyt, putter et al: what is the best books to buy w/ my $200 amazon gift certificate

[00:56] <ingy> I have tapl, atapl and hop so far

[00:56] <putter> :)

[00:56] <ingy> I assume they are good

[00:56] <ingy> is there a killer Haskell book?

[00:57] * putter isn't a good person to ask about buying books...

[00:57] <putter> did you check pugs's READTHEM?

[00:58] * anatoly likes YAHT so far.

[00:58] <ingy> gaal, nothingmuch: ^^

[00:58] <ingy> putter: good idea

[00:59] <putter> you can even use   svn blame  to see who suggested it....:)

[01:04] <putter> maybe search LtU (though I'm not turning up as much as I anticipated)

[01:09] <putter> The Reasoned Schemer, maybe?

[01:09] <ingy> I think my cart overfloweth

[01:11] <putter> Practical Common Lisp?

[01:11] <putter> ;)

[01:15] <putter> if there is a killer Haskell book, it doesnt seem to be on http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Books

[01:20] <avar> hey

[01:21] <avar> since you guys seem to know p5 better than #perl people;)

[01:21] <avar> what is my Fooshizzle $x = 5; supposed to do in Perl 5?

[01:21] <avar> I've read the code and it just checks if Fooshizzle exists as a package in the current scope (i.e. has been parsed) 

[01:21] <avar> but that doesn't seem very useful

[01:22] *** Shachaf joined
[01:43] <Khisanth> avar: the perldocs already tell you what they are for

[01:43] <avar> which one?

[01:44] <Khisanth> perldoc -f my and the other ones it refers to

[01:45] <avar> bah, didn't look there, thanks;)

[01:47] <anatoly> perldoc fields is especially useful, avar

[01:48] <anatoly> my Fooshizzle $x will tell perl that $x is to be bound to the Fooshizzle package, and you won't be able to set keys in the $x hash that aren't declared as valid fields in that package.

[01:49] <avar> as declared in use fields..

[01:49] <avar> nice

[02:15] *** xinming joined
[02:56] *** xinming joined
[03:59] *** Supaplex is now known as startkeylogger

[04:04] *** Amnesiac joined
[04:17] *** typonaise joined
[04:18] *** knewt_ joined
[04:45] *** typonaise joined
[04:57] *** typonaise joined
[05:23] *** weinig joined
[05:26] *** Cryptic_K joined
[05:30] *** weinig joined
[06:59] *** xinming joined
[07:03] *** KingDiamond joined
[07:07] *** fandango joined
[07:08] *** Cryptic_K joined
[07:17] *** iblechbot joined
[07:32] *** r0nny joined
[07:35] *** premshree_ joined
[07:38] *** drrho joined
[07:39] <GeJ> 'morning everyone.

[07:40] <gaal> yo

[07:45] *** premshree_ is now known as KingDiamond

[07:48] <svnbot6> r9125 | lwall++ | * S29draft has now been declared the "official" S29 (with more tweaks/guesses)

[08:18] *** dduncan joined
[08:19] <dduncan> seen ingy

[08:19] <jabbot> dduncan: ingy was seen 7 hours 9 minutes 44 seconds ago

[08:19] <dduncan> ingy, do you have any plans to fix your only.pm module so that it passes its own test suite?

[08:20] <dduncan> I'm trying to use it as a dependency in my own modules (as per PBP recommendation) and the CPAN testers aren't testing my modules, possibly because yours aren't passing their tests

[08:21] <dduncan> but regardless of CPAN testers issues, failing tests look bad

[08:21] <dduncan> fyi ...

[08:21] <dduncan> the module still works correctly for me, despite the test issues

[08:22] <dduncan> but I'm only using it to assert that the correct version of a module is loaded, not to manage multiple versions

[08:22] <dduncan> thank you in advance for your help in this longstanding problem ... which affects other people too

[08:23] <dduncan> see also http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=only , all items of which are marked 'new'

[08:23] <dduncan> still

[08:26] *** kane_ joined
[08:29] <dduncan> oh yeah ...

[08:29] <dduncan> if I'm around, I can test any prelaunch tarballs on my machine before you upload to cpan

[08:30] <dduncan> note that one comment on rt says problems may be related to the presence of version.pm on a system, and I do have that on mine

[08:31] <dduncan> but that's a standard module now and compatability with it is essential

[08:31] <dduncan> thank you

[08:36] *** KingDiamond joined
[08:36] *** Cryptic_K joined
[08:41] *** marmic joined
[08:49] *** premshree_ joined
[08:51] *** Alias_ joined
[08:51] <Alias_> audreyt: ping?

[08:53] *** kanru joined
[08:53] *** pasteling joined
[08:57] *** pasteling joined
[08:58] *** cognominal joined
[09:14] *** premshree__ joined
[09:28] *** ycheng joined
[09:29] *** robink joined
[09:31] <rafl> Juerd: Uhm.. why?

[09:35] *** premshree_ joined
[09:35] *** premshree_ is now known as KingDiamond

[09:39] *** stennie joined
[09:53] *** elmex joined
[09:54] *** gaal joined
[10:14] *** knewt_ is now known as knewt

[10:28] *** nnunley joined
[10:35] *** rantanplan_ joined
[11:38] *** iblechbot joined
[11:45] *** ycheng_ joined
[12:01] <rafl> audreyt: ping

[12:03] *** ycheng joined
[12:04] *** TimToady joined
[12:08] <Juerd> rafl: Context?

[12:14] <broquaint> Is this valid perl6: sub atest( Code $f = { say "I'm a default" } ) { $f() } # As it currently doesn't work in pugs.

[12:16] <Juerd> Regardless of validity, I want to point out that I think the lack of space between sub name and signature is bad.

[12:17] <Juerd> It looks like valid stuff, by the way. Why do you use "Code $f", and not &f directly?

[12:17] <broquaint> Bad or ugly?

[12:17] *** azuroth joined
[12:17] <broquaint> Habit, just cribbing from existing code.

[12:17] <Juerd> Both bad and ugly.

[12:17] <broquaint> I'm guessing it should work as it used to run ok.

[12:17] <broquaint> How is it bad?

[12:17] <Juerd> Bad, because it makes it look like a *call*, which it is not.

[12:18] <Juerd> foo(), foo[], foo{}, foo<>, in a Perl 6 expression is always short for foo.(), foo.[], foo.{}, foo.<>

[12:19] <Juerd> While sub atest.(...) would be invalid.

[12:19] <broquaint> I'm just used to it from C and pretty much every other language with similiar prototypes.

[12:19] <Juerd> Exactly how similar are these prototypes?

[12:19] <broquaint> PHP

[12:20] <Juerd> In PHP, the parens are required.

[12:20] <broquaint> Ruby.

[12:20] <broquaint> Maybe Python.

[12:21] <Juerd> I don't know Ruby and Python well enough.

[12:21] <broquaint> I'm pretty sure parens are required for most language's prototypes.

[12:21] <Juerd> Note that the prototypes being similar or different isn't an argument for or against whitespace, by the way, I'm just curious.

[12:21] *** gaal joined
[12:22] <broquaint> Anyhow, it's broke. Which is odd.

[12:22] <webmind> +n

[12:22] <broquaint> What's the best way to run a single test unit?

[12:22] <broquaint> For pugs that is.

[12:23] <azuroth> perl -Llib/... t/blah/blah.t or something?

[12:23] <rafl> Juerd: Re: sleep inyour office.

[12:23] <broquaint> Hrm, default parameters don't seem to work. Weird.

[12:23] <Juerd> broquaint: I don't know if it's the BEST way, but pugs -Iblib6/lib t/foo.t

[12:23] <Juerd> rafl: If I ask people, I force them to think about it.

[12:24] <Juerd> rafl: Which is something many people here aren't good at. They'll predict trouble where none exists.

[12:24] <Juerd> I've slept here with 6 people for 3 nights, 2 times. It's no problem.

[12:25] <Juerd> But there may be people who are surprised to see sleeping gear.

[12:25] <azuroth> three nights, two times?

[12:25] <Juerd> azuroth: Yes. With one year in between.

[12:25] <azuroth> ahh. I think.

[12:37] <broquaint> Shouldn't the version of pugs on feather be 6.2.11, Juerd?

[12:38] <broquaint> Or have the automated builds stopped?

[12:49] <Juerd> broquaint: Automated builds have stopped, and since I've been trying to get it working again, there hasn't been any working Pugs build at the times I tried :)

[12:50] <Juerd> broquaint: And because of the *long* compilation cycle, there are days in between tries.

[12:50] <Juerd> broquaint: And someone installed debian packages on feather, which makes people expect things (like that libraries are installed), which I'll have to handle.

[12:51] <Juerd> broquaint: But parrot doesn't compile into a Debian package out of the box, so that route is blocked early.

[12:51] <Juerd> broquaint: I lack tuits to work around these things.

[12:51] *** TimToady joined
[12:51] *** nothingmuch_ joined
[12:51] <Juerd> broquaint: So for the time being, feather's parrot and pugs lag behind as much as Debian Sid does.

[12:51] <broquaint> Ok, fair enough :)

[12:55] <nothingmuch_> TimToady: http://perlmonks.org/?node=335547

[12:57] *** nothingmuch_ is now known as nothingmuch

[12:57] * azuroth needs a better monitor. 60hz is no good at all

[13:00] <nothingmuch> no it isn't =(

[13:01] * nothingmuch has a headache with under 80Hz

[13:01] <nothingmuch> but nowadays I only use LCDs so i forgot all about that

[13:01] <nothingmuch> well, an LCD

[13:04] *** KingDiamond joined
[13:05] *** fglock joined
[13:06] *** calanya joined
[13:06] *** nothingmuch joined
[13:07] *** TimToady joined
[13:08] *** Limbic_Region joined
[13:11] <azuroth> yeah. hopefully I can get myself an LCD very soon now

[13:15] <nothingmuch> ping pong moose

[13:16] <azuroth> alligator

[13:18] *** nothingmuch joined
[13:24] <nothingmuch> ping foo?

[13:25] <nothingmuch> moose?

[13:25] <azuroth> nothingmuch: ?

[13:25] <nothingmuch> just testing if the wifi died again

[13:25] <azuroth> ahh. I wasn't sure if you were looking for a specific moose

[13:26] <nothingmuch> well, yes, always

[13:26] <nothingmuch> but regardless it's also *the* metasyntactical noun/verb/adjective

[13:27] *** kolibrie joined
[13:36] <svnbot6> r9126 | bsb++ |  Link unconditionally with zlib and for yml.gz decompression.

[13:36] <svnbot6> r9126 | bsb++ |  FastPackedString defined USE_ZLIB tests removed.

[13:37] *** nothingmuch joined
[13:40] *** kisu joined
[13:45] *** hcchien joined
[13:59] *** gaal joined
[14:03] <fglock> anyone knows why: perl -e ' @m = "aaadaac" =~ /^(:?(a)|(ad))*(c)$/g; print "@m\n"; ' prints: 'a a ad c' instead of 'a a ad a a c' ?

[14:04] <Juerd> Because every set of caputuring parens has ONE result.

[14:04] *** kanru joined
[14:04] <Juerd> Assuming you meant ?: instead of :?,

[14:05] <Juerd> Oh, you didn't.

[14:05] <Juerd> Assuming not,

[14:05] <Juerd> /^(:?(a)|(ad))*(c)$/

[14:05] <Juerd> /^(:?(a)|(ad))*(c)$/

[14:05] <Juerd>   ^  ^   ^     ^

[14:06] <Juerd>   $1 $2  $3    $4

[14:06] <Juerd> So, you cannot get 5 elements back.

[14:06] <Juerd> The * does not change that in Perl 5.

[14:06] <fglock> Juers: thanks!

[14:07] *** bsb joined
[14:12] *** elmex joined
[14:18] *** fglock left
[14:19] *** fglock joined
[14:19] <fglock> s/Juers/Juerd/

[14:20] <rafl> Juerd: Just bought my tickets to Bruxelles.

[14:20] <rafl> Juerd: trains are expensive. :-(

[14:21] <rafl> Juerd: I'll arrive 15.32 with ICE 14 in Bruxelles Agglo. I hope you can pick me up there?

[14:23] <rafl> Juerd: Hm.. one paper says Bruxelles Agglo, the other one says Bruxxeles-Midi.

[14:37] *** hexmode joined
[14:39] *** KingDiamond joined
[14:40] <Juerd> rafl: Find out which one it is, please. With only 30 minutes in between, we don't have time for detours :)

[14:43] <rafl> Juerd: Do you know how the stations there are called?

[14:43] *** robkinyon joined
[14:43] <Juerd> rafl: Nope

[14:45] <svnbot6> r9127 | fglock++ | iterator_engine.pl - better algorithm for '+?'

[14:45] <svnbot6> r9128 | bsb++ |  Further notes on recursive macro possibilities

[14:45] <svnbot6> r9128 | bsb++ |  Revert 594 and 595 MissingH additions now that zlib is used

[14:48] <Juerd> rafl: Can't find anything about any Agglo.

[14:48] <rafl> Juerd: Can you find Midi?

[14:49] <Juerd> Yes

[14:49] *** KingDiamond joined
[15:09] <svnbot6> r9129 | fglock++ | * iterator_engine - started 'p6rule_grammar.p6' - a 'rule' grammar written using 

[15:09] <svnbot6> r9129 | fglock++ |   the small subset of Perl6 compiler that is already implemented.

[15:11] *** chris2 joined
[15:12] <rafl> Juerd: Should be Midi then.

[15:13] *** gaal joined
[15:24] <Juerd> rafl: Okay

[15:25] <rafl> Juerd: ICE 14, 3.32pm.

[15:25] *** vel joined
[15:32] *** gaal_ joined
[15:38] *** gaal_ is now known as gaal

[15:38] *** bsb joined
[15:48] <svnbot6> r9130 | lumi++ | Move the DrIFT-generated instances to separate files

[15:48] *** Amnesiac joined
[15:50] *** justatheory joined
[16:21] *** mtk00 joined
[16:21] <rafl> Juerd: Your phone number, please.

[16:21] <rafl> audreyt: How about switching our Perl 6 talks on GPW?

[16:21] <rafl> audreyt: I think Perl 6, the language, makes more sense before Perl 6, the implementation.

[16:22] <theorbtwo> Makes a lot of sense to me.

[16:22] <Juerd> rafl: +31 6 19 18 49 89 until I switch to +31 6 47 91 27 15 sometime tomorrow.

[16:22] * theorbtwo wonders if it's too late to go.

[16:22] <Juerd> theorbtwo: Why would it be too late?

[16:23] <rafl> Juerd: Thanks. Mine is +49 176 22521114

[16:23] <Juerd> Oh, heh, I hadn't registered yet for GPW.

[16:23] <Juerd> Let's do so

[16:23] <theorbtwo> Because it's next week, and I'd have to figure out how to get there, get Jess off work...

[16:24] <Juerd> theorbtwo: Right, it's *next* week. So you still have time to figure things out and arrange thinghs.

[16:24] <Juerd> s/hs/s/

[16:24] <rafl> Juerd: I haven't payed. D'UH..

[16:24] <Juerd> Doesn't payment happen on site?

[16:26] <rafl> Juerd: No.

[16:26] <Juerd> rafl: Will we participate in the wednesday dinner?

[16:26] <rafl> Juerd: I'd like to.

[16:26] <Juerd> ok

[16:26] <rafl> Juerd: Shall we participate in the preparations on feb 28th?

[16:27] <Juerd> rafl: Nice idea!

[16:28] <theorbtwo> Oh.  Anyway, certianly can't go.  Jess already has off...

[16:28] <theorbtwo> ...because my parents are visiting the country.

[16:28] * Juerd is considering bringing his beamer for movie watching in the hostels...

[16:28] <rafl> Juerd: I feel some sarcasm.

[16:28] <rafl> Juerd++

[16:28] <Juerd> rafl: No sarcasm intended...

[16:28] <Juerd> rafl: If you bring movies, I'll bring a beamer :)

[16:28] <rafl> Juerd: Aye. I'll mail wsorga then.

[16:28] <rafl> Juerd: When will we be there on the 28th?

[16:28] <rafl> Juerd: I'll do so.

[16:29] <Juerd> Let's hope for white walls, and roommates who like movies :)

[16:29] <Juerd> If there are roommates.

[16:29] <rafl> Juerd: I hope you don't mind if they're partially german.

[16:29] <Juerd> Which is always a surprise.

[16:29] <Juerd> Depends how partial.

[16:29] <Juerd> I have no planning for the 28th

[16:29] <rafl> Some english, some german movies.

[16:29] <Juerd> Except driving from .be to .de :)

[16:29] <rafl> Juerd: Lets plan to be there in the early afternoon?

[16:30] *** hcarty joined
[16:30] <rafl> Juerd: 1 or 2 pm maybe?

[16:30] <Juerd> rafl: My German isn't great, as you know. But it's better than no movie :)

[16:30] <Juerd> rafl: Okay.

[16:30] <Juerd> rafl: At what time do we have to check in at the hostel?

[16:30] <rafl> Juerd: Before 8pm

[16:30] <Juerd> Oh, that's nice and late :)

[16:33] * rafl wants audreyt to be back. So I could put everything into a single mail to wsorga.. :-(

[16:33] <svnbot6> r9131 | gaal++ |  r9130@sike:  roo | 2006-02-23 13:44:13 +0200

[16:33] <svnbot6> r9131 | gaal++ |  * Pugs.Prim: Pugs::Internals::emit_yaml prim to dump some AST

[16:33] <svnbot6> r9131 | gaal++ |    programmatically, analogously to pugs -CParse-YAML

[16:33] <Juerd> What/who is wsorga?

[16:33] <rafl> And I'm afraid. I'll need to get up at 5.30 tomorrow to get my train/ I fear I can't do that.

[16:34] *** hcarty left
[16:34] <rafl> Juerd: The WorkShop Organisation team wsorga@perl-workshop.de

[16:34] <Juerd> Ah

[16:34] <Juerd> 5:30? Holy crap :)

[16:34] <svnbot6> r9132 | gaal++ |  r9131@sike:  roo | 2006-02-23 13:44:47 +0200

[16:34] <svnbot6> r9132 | gaal++ |  * Precompile Test.pm before running smoke tests

[16:34] <svnbot6> r9133 | gaal++ |  r9132@sike:  audreyt | 2006-02-23 13:54:00 +0200

[16:34] <svnbot6> r9133 | gaal++ |  * s/Pugs-YAML/Parse-YAML/

[16:34] <rafl> Juerd: As an alternative to watching movies I could offer preparing my Perl 6 Talk for GPW. :-)

[16:35] <Juerd> rafl: That too could use a beamer :)

[16:35] <Juerd> rafl: Don't forget we have a full free day in between FOSDEM and GPW to fill :)

[16:35] <rafl> Juerd: My eyes aren't that bad!

[16:35] <svnbot6> r9134 | gaal++ |  r9133@sike:  roo | 2006-02-23 16:44:55 +0200

[16:35] <svnbot6> r9134 | gaal++ |  broken renaming of %*INC<MyMod><exports> to %MyMod::EXPORTS

[16:35] <svnbot6> r9135 | gaal++ |  r9134@sike:  audreyt | 2006-02-23 17:32:06 +0200

[16:35] <svnbot6> r9135 | gaal++ |  * Parser: export now works again.

[16:35] <Juerd> rafl: Awh, no private test presentation? :)

[16:36] <rafl> Juerd: Well. Preparations for GPW and hanging around with the others.. :-)

[16:36] <svnbot6> r9136 | gaal++ |  r9135@sike:  roo | 2006-02-23 17:44:26 +0200

[16:36] <svnbot6> r9136 | gaal++ |  * Precompile Test.pm before make smoke and make test

[16:36] <svnbot6> r9137 | gaal++ |  r9136@sike:  audreyt | 2006-02-23 17:45:45 +0200

[16:36] <svnbot6> r9137 | gaal++ |  * retab

[16:36] <svnbot6> r9138 | gaal++ |  r9137@sike:  audreyt | 2006-02-23 18:31:22 +0200

[16:36] <svnbot6> r9138 | gaal++ |  * getopt spec draft

[16:37] <rafl> Juerd: OK.. a test presentation would be cool. A talk to present would be cool as well.

[16:37] <Juerd> rafl: Well, we'll still be in Belgium that day.

[16:37] <rafl> Juerd: Right.. there's the 27th. Forgot that..

[16:37] <Juerd> rafl: We could film the entire talk beforehand, and play it at GPW... You could be your own audience! :)

[16:38] <rafl> Impressive..

[16:38] <Juerd> Imagine the unique opportunity to ask yourself questions.

[16:38] <Juerd> *in public*

[16:39] <webmind> Juerd, you never ask yourself questions in public? :)

[16:39] <rafl> That would look like cheating. Obviously the lecturer already knew the question before the talk was given..

[16:39] <webmind> unless you've learned something in the meanwhile? :)

[16:40] <Juerd> rafl: Hm, indeed. You'd better swap with the virtual rafl anyway, because the virtual rafl won't be able to answer other questions... :)

[16:40] <Juerd> So the virtual rafl can ask the physical rafl questions

[16:40] <rafl> Juerd: We can record a "403 Permanently moved" pointing to the real rafl.

[16:40] <Juerd> It's all entirely doable, if there are two beamers :P

[16:40] <rafl> :-)

[16:43] <rafl> Juerd: As you're a Debian user.. could you please help me? Attach my screen session on feather.

[16:44] <Juerd> Done

[16:52] <Juerd> rafl: Try apt again

[16:53] <rafl> WTF.. why is backward search gone?

[16:54] <Juerd> ?

[16:54] <Juerd> (no pun intended; I meant "huh?")

[16:54] <rafl> Oh.. I somehow killed screen.

[16:54] <svnbot6> r9139 | lumi++ | Proofread (and illuminated by nothingmuch)

[16:54] <rafl> Could you reattach it?

[16:55] <Juerd> Yes.

[16:55] <rafl> How to search backwards in copy mode?

[16:56] <Juerd> ?

[16:56] <rafl> is foreward, but ^O ? is the help screen

[16:56] <Juerd> Not ^O ?, just ?.

[16:56] <Juerd> shift+/

[16:59] * rafl will be back in a few minutes.

[17:04] <svnbot6> r9140 | lumi++ | Fixed include paths when generating DrIFT

[17:04] *** szbalint joined
[17:08] *** cdpruden joined
[17:08] <svnbot6> r9141 | lumi++ | Pregenerated instances for the DrIFT files.

[17:39] *** orafu joined
[17:52] *** Khisanth joined
[17:54] <Juerd> I hate <<""

[18:00] <Amnesiac> heredocs?

[18:03] <theorbtwo> The syntax of the beginning, or the whole feature?

[18:07] <Juerd> Heredocs with empty line endings.

[18:07] <Juerd> I hate heredocs only in Perl <6 :)

[18:07] <Juerd> And I don't entirely like them in Perl 6 either. I like to indent my string one level more than the end marker.

[18:08] <Juerd> But I can live with this compromise

[18:08] <rafl> Juerd: OK.. what now? I have no clue what's going wrong and I'd like to have parrot 0.4.2 in Debian. :-(

[18:08] <Juerd> And there's a dutch company called ComPromise. How stupid can one be? :)

[18:08] <rafl> audreyt: ping, again.

[18:08] <rafl> Heh :-)

[18:08] <Juerd> rafl: I'll look around a bit

[18:13] <rafl> Juerd: Thanks

[18:14] <Juerd> What command caused this again? Start it in screen please

[18:15] <rafl> Juerd: Done

[18:17] <rafl> Juerd: Stop making my screen bell! :-P

[18:18] <Juerd> rafl: ^O^G

[18:20] <rafl> Juerd: It still alerts the other screen the screen on feather is running in. Oh well..

[18:24] *** avar joined
[18:25] <Juerd> Hehe

[18:25] <Juerd> That's funny.

[18:25] <sili> hoho

[18:25] <Juerd> The problem stems from a duplicate entry in the tarball.

[18:25] <sili> it's not a singleton?

[18:25] <Juerd> Apparently not!

[18:25] <sili> heh.

[18:26] <Juerd> Whoever said that filenames are unique, was wrong!

[18:57] *** ghenry joined
[19:04] *** avar joined
[19:22] *** beppu joined
[19:33] *** stennie joined
[19:36] <svnbot6> r9142 | fglock++ | iterator_engine - implemented captures - iterator_engine_p6grammar.pl is broken

[19:38] *** startkeylogger is now known as Supaplex

[20:16] *** uzair_ joined
[20:20] *** robkinyon joined
[20:27] <rafl> Juerd: Bah.. just found out that I need to maintain the Debian booth on Sat from 4 to 5 pm :-(

[20:28] *** theorbtwo joined
[20:36] <avar> debian has a booth?

[20:37] <avar> whatwhatwhat

[20:38] <rafl> avar: On Fosdem, yes.

[20:40] <rafl> Which means that I'll miss the XEN/Speex/Asterisk talk :-(

[20:41] <avar> just leave

[20:42] <avar> and leave a post-it saying "debian takes care of itself"

[20:42] <avar> it'll be awsome

[20:42] <rafl> :-D

[20:45] <szbalint> lol

[21:03] *** lisppaste3 joined
[21:14] *** TimToady joined
[21:17] <lypanov> wb larry

[21:17] *** bsb joined
[21:19] <Limbic_Region> Out of curiosity - has anyone tackled any of the Project Euler problems using Parrot/Perl6/Pugs ?

[21:20] <rafl> Limbic_Region: Maybe in the shootout project parrot participates in?

[21:21] <Limbic_Region> rafl - you mean the same people? since the two projects are completely unrelated AFAIK

[21:21] <Limbic_Region> and is building on Win32 currently b0rk or is it just me?

[21:22] <rafl> Limbic_Region: No. I don't know the Euler Project but thought they might have similar tasks.. ENOCLUE

[21:23] <Limbic_Region> oh - Project Euler (currently offline while it moves to a new server) is a series of mathematical problems posed that pretty much need a program to solve

[21:23] <Limbic_Region> quite fun

[21:23] <Limbic_Region> http://mathschallenge.net/index.php?section=project&ref=view

[21:23] <LeTo> Limbic_Region: if you have too much time - yes ;)

[21:24] <rafl> Limbic_Region: Ah. Sounds way too mathematical for me. :-)

[21:24] <Limbic_Region> LeTo - context for your response?  You referring to something about Project Euler or Pugs not working on Win32 currently?

[21:25] <LeTo> Euler and implemting it in e.g. Parrot

[21:25] * rafl likes pythonchallenge

[21:25] <Limbic_Region> oh, well I was going to try some of the ones I have already solved in p5 (since the site is down) but I can't get Pugs to build ATM

[21:26] <LeTo> rafl: yep pythonchallenge prog implemented as a p5 one-liner ;)

[21:27] <rafl> LeTo: Huh?

[21:27] <LeTo> or shell script one-liner

[21:27] *** larsen joined
[21:27] <rafl> LeTo: Well. I wonder how you do complex image manipulation in sh..

[21:27] <rafl> LeTo: The first challenges are easy and doable with oneliners, but they get pretty complex.

[21:28] <LeTo> rafl: there have been very simple progs too

[21:28] <svnbot6> r9143 | audreyt++ | * Unbreak the build: PIL1.hs shouldn't contain duplicate instances.

[21:32] * Limbic_Region svn ups to see if audreyt fixed the prob

[21:33] * Limbic_Region wavers to audreyt and to all the hackathon hackers

[21:33] <szbalint> Limbic_Region: oh you're doing Pr. Euler too? :)

[21:33] <Limbic_Region> yes szbalint - name's limbic (if that wasn't obvious)

[21:33] <Limbic_Region> done about circa 45 of the problems

[21:33] * obra is pleased to see that people are replying to synopsis commits

[21:34] <szbalint> I'm szbalint there too :)

[21:34] *** dduncan joined
[21:36] *** calanya joined
[21:36] <szbalint> I think some tasks could be done with current Pugs, but not sure if within the one minute rule

[21:36] <rafl> Juerd: ping

[21:37] <Limbic_Region> szbalint - the one minute rule isn't that your code can't take longer than 1 minute to complete - it is that given the "right" way of approaching the problem, it shouldn't take more than 1 minute to run

[21:37] <dduncan> well, I'm happy to report that, after being laid up with a cold for a week, I've gotten a new burst of inspiration last night, so I should be able to really push forward with Rosetta today

[21:38] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - if you are paying attention - build is still broke on Win32 - I will nopaste the error

[21:38] <dduncan> no details need to be said at this time though

[21:38] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: please do

[21:39] *** r0nny_ joined
[21:40] <audreyt> Juerd: I'd like mediawiki installed on feather. is that possible?

[21:40] <szbalint> Limbic_Region: isn't that basically the same thing in relation to programming languages?

[21:40] <pasteling> "Limbic_Region" at 129.33.119.12 pasted "Build on Win32 is failing after nmake realclean; svn up; perl Makefile.PL; nmake" (105 lines, 7.1K) at http://sial.org/pbot/15993

[21:40] <audreyt> Juerd: (a "go ahead and apt-get yourself" will do too)

[21:41] <Limbic_Region> szbalint - no, if you come up with an answer after a day of running and it is right - you still get the points

[21:41] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - I can't stick around but I nopasted the blow-up

[21:41] *** nothingmuch joined
[21:41] * Limbic_Region heads home to his daughter

[21:41] <Limbic_Region> TTFN all

[21:41] <szbalint> heh

[21:43] <Juerd> audreyt: Go ahead and apt-get yourself :)

[21:44] <Juerd> audreyt: However, please make any server wide wiki not any-project-specific

[21:44] <audreyt> TimToady: I asked Robrt to put filename on subjects of p6l just now (on irc.perl.org #p5p)

[21:44] <Juerd> rafl: pong

[21:44] <audreyt> Juerd: can't be... it'd be specific to perl6

[21:44] <audreyt> Juerd: so maybe /perl/ ?

[21:44] <audreyt> /perl6/, even

[21:44] <rafl> Juerd: The shedule again, please?

[21:44] <clkao> audreyt: i guess i am glad that i got you on irc a few years ago :)

[21:45] <Juerd> rafl: "apt-get install booth-personell"

[21:45] <audreyt> clkao: right, chain reaction and all that

[21:45] <clkao> :D

[21:45] <clkao> rock on

[21:45] <Juerd> audreyt: Sure, but then don't apt-get :)

[21:45] <rafl> Juerd: Could you bring a small server to GPW? :-)

[21:45] <Juerd> rafl: Hm, what for?

[21:45] <rafl> audreyt: How about switching our talks on GPW?

[21:45] <Juerd> rafl: And schedule, hold on.

[21:45] <rafl> Juerd: As a local pugs hacking. Otherwise feathe rwill do.

[21:45] <audreyt> rafl: I write your slides and you write mine?

[21:46] <audreyt> rafl: not sure how that works out

[21:46] <rafl> audreyt: p6, the language, makes more sense before p6, the implementation, imho ;-P

[21:46] <Juerd> rafl: I won't be able to bring any box that's capable of compiling pugs within reasonable time

[21:46] <audreyt> rafl: oh, just switching timeslot

[21:46] <Juerd> rafl: feather's quite useless for that too...

[21:46] <audreyt> rafl: sure, I'll trade

[21:47] <rafl> Juerd: Why?

[21:47] <Juerd> rafl: Have you any idea how long compiling pugs takes?

[21:47] <nothingmuch> http://nfttu.blogspot.com/2006/02/cow-bombs.html

[21:47] <Juerd> rafl: How many hours exactly is this workshop? :)

[21:47] <rafl> Juerd: It's not for pugs compiling but for pugs playing. Only for experiments with p6, not for hacking on pugs itself.

[21:47] <Juerd> It doesn't get any better if several people compile the same thing simultaneously

[21:47] <Juerd> rafl: Oh, I see.

[21:48] <rafl> audreyt: Aye. I'll try to get the timetable changed.

[21:48] <Juerd> rafl: Best I can bring on such short notice is pentium 3 class...

[21:48] <Juerd> rafl: With not enough memory for multiple people :)

[21:48] <Juerd> rafl: So let's use feather

[21:48] <rafl> Juerd: OK.

[21:48] <TimToady> audreyt: arigatou

[21:49] <Juerd> rafl: schedule at http://tnx.nl/4532BVGP

[21:50] <Juerd> rafl: Could you do me a favour?

[21:50] <Juerd> favor

[21:50] <wolverian> favour 

[21:50] <LeTo> rafl: who is Marc Lehmann?

[21:50] <rafl> Juerd: Store it locally?

[21:50] <Juerd> any(favor, favour) :)

[21:50] <Juerd> rafl: Pay the GPW for me when you pay for yourself too; I can give you back the cash tomorrow.

[21:51] <Juerd> If I have to do an international bank transfer now, it won't arrive in time.

[21:51] <Juerd> (store what locally?)

[21:51] <rafl> Juerd: The schedule. I ask the 42th time for it just now.

[21:51] <Juerd> Ah, heh, no I don't mind

[21:52] <Juerd> From tomorrow forward, we're not as connected to IRC so it won't be a problem any longer :)

[21:52] <rafl> No IRC? WTF..?

[21:53] <Juerd> rafl: Not *as* connected 

[21:53] <rafl> Juerd: Do you remember 22C3?

[21:53] *** macli joined
[21:53] <Juerd> Yes, it wasn't that long ago :)

[21:53] <rafl> Juerd: Sitting next to each other and talking on IRC..

[21:53] <Juerd> Hm, good point.

[21:54] <Juerd> But, I can simply show you my local file then :)

[21:54] <Juerd> I fucking still don't have my 8cell :(

[21:54] <Juerd> Ordered it weeks ago.

[21:56] <rafl> Juerd: Same thing for the ultra bay, right?

[21:56] <Juerd> Haven't ordered any ultrabay

[21:56] <Juerd> But yes, it would take weeks.

[21:58] <rafl> Huh.. thought you did.

[21:58] <Juerd> Eh, I thought you didn't want it to take weeks...

[21:59] <Juerd> I haven't even inquired for pricing info; you wouldn't blindly order anything, would you? :)

[21:59] <Juerd> Hm, I should go home and get some sleep.

[22:00] <Juerd> First, I should clean the interior of my car :)

[22:00] <rafl> Juerd: Well. So get some pricing info! :-)

[22:00] <Juerd> Can do so only during office hours

[22:00] <Juerd> And will be very busy packing and stuff, tomorrow.

[22:00] <Juerd> Remind me Monday

[22:00] <rafl> Juerd: No need to do so. I also did not clean up my room which we will visit on the 3rd.

[22:01] * rafl needs to pack today. Bah..

[22:01] <Juerd> rafl: Don't you like to put your feet somewhere?

[22:01] <Juerd> Today only is another hour.

[22:01] <rafl> Juerd: Today is before I go to sleep.

[22:01] <Juerd> And in little over 5 hours your day begins again.

[22:01] <Juerd> You should get sleeping...

[22:02] <rafl> Juerd: Behave.. otherwise I'll take some duct tape with me!

[22:02] <Juerd> I *expect* you to bring along duct tape. 

[22:02] <Juerd> It's essential gear... :)

[22:02] <rafl> Hm.. no transition moment.

[22:03] <Juerd> Transition?

[22:04] <Juerd> rafl: Have you planned your way back yet, by the way?

[22:04] <rafl> Bah. I should practice to use my babelfish.

[22:04] <rafl> Juerd: No. I'm not sure if I can afford to go to Amsterdam.PM yet. I'll know at the begining of next month.

[22:05] <Juerd> Oh :|

[22:05] <rafl> I'm sorry.

[22:06] <rafl> I can't afford another train travel. Depending on how much money is on my account I can try to tramp back.

[22:06] <rafl> Fosdem is free? cool.

[22:06] <Juerd> But otherwise I have to drive 730 km all alone

[22:06] <Juerd> Yes, fosdem is free :)

[22:07] <Juerd> So you have money left over for another train journey :)

[22:07] <rafl> If I would have expected fosdem to cost 135 EUR. Then I would have enough money left. Unfortunately I didn't.

[22:08] <Juerd> It's *that* expensive?

[22:09] <rafl> No, it's the dainty food in the train bistro that makes it that expensive.

[22:09] <Juerd> Hm?

[22:09] <rafl> Yes, it is that expensive. It's an ICE.

[22:09] <Juerd> Speaking of food; do you have enough money to buy food? :)

[22:10] <Juerd> As only breakfast at Bruegel is included; at Aleppo it costs extra. And then there's lunch and dinner too.

[22:10] <rafl> I'll get free food at CLT and probably at GPW. That only makes 5 days without food. Quite doable.

[22:10] <Juerd> Ah, okay

[22:11] <rafl> How about you?

[22:12] <Juerd> I have a 1k budget for the entire trip, so I'll manage.

[22:12] <Juerd> I don't want to spend it all, but I can if needed.

[22:12] <rafl> That's much.

[22:13] <rafl> Ah, OK. So I can blag a bit..

[22:13] <Juerd> Yes. A client ordered many domain names and then figured out that the brand name they'd chosen sounds like the word for "totally fucked up" in some language

[22:13] <Juerd> So then they ordered as many domains again.

[22:14] <rafl> Heh A client ordered many domain names and then figured out that the brand name they'd chosen sounds like the word for "totally

[22:14] <rafl>                fucked up" in some language

[22:14] <rafl> 23:13 < Juerd> So then they ordered as many domains again.

[22:14] <rafl> ups.

[22:14] <rafl>  :-)

[22:14] <Juerd> This, plus a nice paid freelance job I've done in January, makes for a nice balance.

[22:14] <Juerd> (nice and paid, not broken english for nicely paid)

[22:16] <integral> yet another use for the mighty comma: "nice, paid job"

[22:17] <Juerd> comma++ 

[22:18] <Juerd> I'm off.

[22:19] <rafl> Bye.

[22:19] <rafl> See you tomorrow.

[22:19] <Juerd> rafl: Good luck tomorrow, and see you at Bruss^WBruxelles Midi around 15:30

[22:19] <rafl> Yep!

[22:25] *** theorbtwo joined
[22:26] *** SamB joined
[22:26] <audreyt> bsb: I'm committing a build-unbreak change

[22:26] <audreyt> so that it could build without zlib

[22:27] <fglock> audreyt: mini-grammar parser works!

[22:28] <svnbot6> r9144 | fglock++ | * iterator_engine_p6grammar.pl - compiles a grammar written in mini-Perl6 an 

[22:28] <svnbot6> r9144 | fglock++ |   produces _runnable_ perl5 code

[22:30] <fglock> the code emitted by iterator_engine_p6grammar.pl can be tested with:  use Data::Dumper; print Dumper xxx('xxx');

[22:30] <audreyt> fglock: oooooooh

[22:31] <fglock> :)

[22:33] <svnbot6> r9145 | audreyt++ | * Prim.Eval: make the yml.gz loading code fallback in a more

[22:33] <svnbot6> r9145 | audreyt++ |  structured fashion -- also don't try to read if the file 

[22:33] <svnbot6> r9145 | audreyt++ |  doesn't exist in the first place.

[22:44] *** SLBKBS joined
[22:54] <svnbot6> r9146 | audreyt++ | * zlib probing

[22:55] *** Blicero_ left
[23:03] <svnbot6> r9147 | audreyt++ | * S29draft: bring forward the return type as the prefix

[23:03] <svnbot6> r9147 | audreyt++ |   of function definitions, and introduce explicit scoping.

[23:03] <svnbot6> r9148 | audreyt++ | * rename S29draft to S29 as it is now binding.

[23:03] <audreyt> bsb: so nothing writes the .gz at this moment?

[23:04] <audreyt> (it had to be manually gzipped?)

[23:05] <bsb> manually, yes

[23:05] <audreyt> k

[23:12] <svnbot6> r9149 | fglock++ | iterator_engine - added a 'p6rule_lib.pl' file for the system rules, such 

[23:12] <svnbot6> r9149 | fglock++ | as <ws>

[23:13] <fglock> is there a namespace assigned for the <ws> rule and others?

[23:21] <audreyt> probably in the Grammar grammar

[23:22] <fglock> ok - like: rule Grammar::ws {...}

[23:25] <audreyt> yeah

[23:25] <audreyt> because all grammars inherits from Grammar

[23:26] <audreyt> that is a safe bet

[23:28] <fglock> re inheritance - p5 rule calls will need to be written like methods for this to work

[23:33] *** rabbine joined
[23:36] <audreyt> fglock: or we just cheat and compose as mixins in the p5 implementation

[23:36] <audreyt> (or use Class::MOP)

[23:36] <audreyt> but anything that's fast to implement is a win

[23:38] <fglock> what is the current main plan for p6 on p5?

[23:38] <svnbot6> r9150 | audreyt++ | * Perl6::Doc now installs!

[23:38] <audreyt> fglock: we export all the haskell internal structures into p6 objects

[23:38] <audreyt> fglock: then dump all of them into an object space image

[23:38] <audreyt> (and call this PIL2)

[23:39] <audreyt> fglock: p5 would need an object space that runs this

[23:39] <audreyt> which ties into underlying prims

[23:39] <audreyt> including rules etc

[23:41] * fglock goes read Class::MOP pod

[23:47] <svnbot6> r9151 | audreyt++ | * Our main Makefile.PL now installs Perl6::Doc and the

[23:47] <svnbot6> r9151 | audreyt++ |   associated viewer, p6doc.

[23:50] <svnbot6> r9152 | audreyt++ | * Invoking "p6doc" after installation now shows the

[23:50] <svnbot6> r9152 | audreyt++ |   Perl6::Doc manpage; "p6doc tutorial" will show the

[23:50] <svnbot6> r9152 | audreyt++ |   Perl6::Tutorial manpage, and so on.

[23:50] <svnbot6> r9152 | audreyt++ |   The command line API needs work.

[23:55] <clkao> what, the p6doc problem is not ported to p6 yet!

[23:57] <audreyt> commits welcome

[23:59] <svnbot6> r9153 | audreyt++ | * Perl6::API and Perl6::Spec.

