[00:08] *** amnesiac joined
[00:11] *** |mjk| joined
[00:27] <meppl> gute nacht

[00:28] <FurnacePissy> n8

[00:30] <meppl> ;)

[00:36] *** cmarcelo joined
[00:46] *** audreyt_ joined
[00:46] <audreyt_> yay, meeting over

[00:46] *** pfenwick joined
[00:46] <audreyt_> @seen ingy

[00:46] <lambdabot> ingy is in #perl6. I last heard ingy speak 5 hours, 42 minutes and 21 seconds ago.

[01:00] *** hikozaemon joined
[01:08] <cmarcelo> audreyt_: i saw your slides from MS talk. "Boston Hackaton ... integrate HsJudy" =) any special API requests until there?

[01:08] <cmarcelo> audreyt: ops.. i saw your slides from MS talk. "Boston Hackaton ... integrate HsJudy" =) any special API requests until there?

[01:27] <svnbot6> r10813 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - pass 01-sanity/05-sub.t, 01-sanity/06-use.t

[01:41] *** jiing_mIRC joined
[01:42] <audreyt> yo

[01:42] *** jiing_ joined
[01:42] *** jiing_ left
[01:43] <audreyt> cmarcelo: not that I can think of at the moment

[01:45] <svnbot6> r10814 | audreyt++ | * Repair the JS backend for real, recovering from VType and pad changes...

[01:47] <cmarcelo> audreyt: i'm still stuck on university work these days, but i believe by the hackaton time i'll be free to help you people (by IRC =o) ). btw, sent an email to ghc-users/bugs with the "illegal instruction" problem, but remains a mistery.

[01:47] <svnbot6> r10815 | audreyt++ | * Pugs.Compat.executeFile': In cases where rawSystem is usable

[01:47] <svnbot6> r10815 | audreyt++ |   (like for JS helpers), use it, because the POSIX executeFile

[01:47] <svnbot6> r10815 | audreyt++ |   is somehow broken on MacIntel+GHC6.5 here...

[01:47] <audreyt> k

[02:03] <audreyt> dinner, bbiab

[02:03] <svnbot6> r10816 | audreyt++ | * re-attach the Perl5 bridge:

[02:03] <svnbot6> r10816 | audreyt++ |     $ ./pugs -CPerl5 misc/pX/Common/Pugs-Compiler-Perl6/hello_world.pl

[02:03] <svnbot6> r10816 | audreyt++ |     $ ./pugs -BPerl5 misc/pX/Common/Pugs-Compiler-Perl6/hello_world.pl

[02:04] <clkao> whoot

[02:08] *** weinig is now known as weinig|sleep

[02:11] <svnbot6> r10817 | audreyt++ | * v6.pm - allow dual use as a command line program:

[02:11] <svnbot6> r10817 | audreyt++ |     perl v6.pm -e "some perl 6 code"

[02:11] <svnbot6> r10817 | audreyt++ |   this is used for Pugs's -CPerl5 and -BPerl5 helpers.

[02:11] <audreyt> so, probably not going to use Phoenix

[02:11] <audreyt> the SSA graph it builds is too low level

[02:12] <audreyt> also, not going to work with BSD licensed tools alone

[02:12] <audreyt> have to use their "academic shared source" thing

[02:12] <audreyt> so instead, doing MSIL<->XML<->Haskell serialization directly now

[02:12] <audreyt> much as what Jonathan did with parrot/languages/dotnet/

[02:13] <audreyt> but with more bells and whistles, such as resumable exceptions and delegates

[02:14] <audreyt> emeijer has crazy ideas about DHTML version of a subset of WinForms binding

[02:14] <audreyt> but we'll see how it plays out ;)

[02:24] *** cmarcelo left
[02:54] *** FurnacePissy is now known as FurnaceBoy

[03:03] *** drbean_ joined
[03:08] <cognominal_> what means "canonical time" in S05?

[03:11] <cognominal_> I suppose it means that optimizations cannot change the time at which the closure is run.

[03:15] *** shachaf_ joined
[03:24] <svnbot6> r10818 | fglock++ | v6.pm - adds 'use strict' and 'use Pugs::Runtime::Perl6' to generated code

[03:24] <svnbot6> r10819 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - pass 01-sanity/07-end-blocks.t

[03:29] *** _SamB_ joined
[03:33] <svnbot6> r10820 | fglock++ | v6.pm - added a few comments

[04:14] *** gaal left
[04:36] *** __SamB__ joined
[04:45] *** baest joined
[04:55] *** rebcabin joined
[05:03] *** rebcabin left
[05:24] *** rebcabin joined
[05:33] *** visq joined
[05:50] *** hlb joined
[06:05] *** tup joined
[06:29] *** ko1_away is now known as ko1

[06:58] *** Aankhen`` joined
[07:07] <svnbot6> r10821 | Aankhen++ | * perl5/Module-Compile/inc/Module/Install.pm: fix for bug on case-insensitive filesystems.

[07:09] *** szbalint joined
[07:16] *** buetow joined
[07:27] *** ko1 is now known as ko1_away

[07:31] *** elmex joined
[07:37] *** iblechbot joined
[07:50] *** drrho joined
[08:24] *** Kattana joined
[08:28] *** snowstalker joined
[09:55] <Aankhen``> What do I do to create a local branch of Pugs using SVK?

[09:56] <Aankhen``> I've been trying using `svk mirror`, but maybe I have the host wrong or something...

[09:56] <Aankhen``> >svk mirror svn://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs //mirror/pugs

[09:56] <Aankhen``> No connection could be made because the target machine actively refused it.  : C

[09:56] <Aankhen``> an't connect to host 'svn.openfoundry.org': No connection could be made because

[09:56] <Aankhen``> the target machine actively refused it.

[10:02] <svnbot6> r10822 | renormalist++ | - new Twigils

[10:04] *** chris2 joined
[10:12] <meppl> guten morgen

[10:15] *** ludan joined
[10:42] *** Kattana joined
[10:47] *** marmic joined
[10:50] *** SamB joined
[10:55] *** bjoern_ joined
[11:06] *** kane_ joined
[11:11] *** weinig|sleep joined
[11:13] *** weinig|sleep is now known as weinig

[11:24] *** weinig is now known as weinig|work

[11:25] *** jsiracusa joined
[11:27] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[11:57] *** buetow joined
[12:01] <cognominal> I don't remember where is the subversion repository of Perl6::Bible

[12:01] <cognominal> it seems that dev.perl.org lags compared to modifs I see in the maillist

[12:02] <audreyt> Aankh|Clone: http:// not svn://

[12:02] <audreyt> Aankh|Clone: and you branch with "svk cp //mirror/pugs //pugs"

[12:03] <Aankh|Clone> Ah, thanks.

[12:03] *** Aankh|Clone is now known as Aankhen``

[12:08] <Aankhen``> C:\Development>svk mirror http://www.openfoundry.org/pugs //mirror/pugs

[12:08] <Aankhen``> RA layer request failed: PROPFIND request failed on '/': PROPFIND of '/': 200 OK

[12:08] <Aankhen``>  (http://www.openfoundry.org)

[12:08] <audreyt> svn.openfoundry.org not www.

[12:10] * Aankhen`` bangs forehead on wall

[12:10] <Aankhen``> Sorry, I'm very confused.

[12:10] <Aankhen``> (As you can see.)

[12:11] <audreyt> still very confused, or was very confused? :)

[12:11] <Aankhen``> Was.

[12:12] <audreyt> cool :D

[12:12] <Aankhen``> I'll warn you if it happens again. ;-)

[12:13] <Aankhen``> Okay, now I seem to have an empty directory.

[12:13] <Aankhen``> Hang on a sec.

[12:13] <Aankhen``> I'll get it!

[12:13] <Aankhen``> svk sync to the rescue!

[12:20] *** lollan joined
[12:20] *** dakkar joined
[12:36] *** iblechbot joined
[12:38] *** weinig|work_ joined
[12:52] *** veepster_ joined
[12:52] *** veepster_ left
[12:57] *** dakkar joined
[13:05] *** pfenwick left
[13:08] *** Limbic_Region joined
[13:18] *** rzoz joined
[13:23] *** _calvin_ joined
[13:28] *** frederico joined
[13:35] *** miyagawa joined
[13:51] *** bpphillips joined
[14:05] *** dakkar joined
[14:13] *** Student1 joined
[14:19] *** rebcabin joined
[14:22] *** christopher joined
[14:24] *** amnesiac joined
[14:45] *** dakkar joined
[14:55] *** cognominal joined
[15:09] *** vel joined
[15:10] *** FurnaceBoy joined
[15:25] *** turrepurre joined
[15:31] <svnbot6> r10823 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - pass 01-sanity/07-binding.t, 07-defined.t, 07-substr.t, 07-try.t

[15:48] *** buetow joined
[15:50] *** amnesiac_ joined
[15:50] *** snowstalker joined
[15:50] *** amnesiac_ is now known as amnesiac

[16:02] *** bjoern_ joined
[16:05] *** particle_ joined
[16:19] <svnbot6> r10824 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - pass 01-sanity/07-split.t

[16:25] <Aankhen``> Hmm, I'm getting an error building Pugs.

[16:25] * Aankhen`` heads for the pastebin.

[16:26] <Juerd> rafl: Will you be at froscon next weekend?

[16:26] <Juerd> rafl: I may be able to go there on Sunday, and bring your things along

[16:26] <pasteling> "Aankhen``" at 125.23.11.39 pasted "Error building Pugs on Win32" (13 lines, 589B) at http://sial.org/pbot/17909

[16:27] <audreyt> GHC 6.4.2?

[16:27] <audreyt> does typing another "nmake" work?

[16:29] *** penk joined
[16:29] <Aankhen``> I'll try...

[16:30] <Aankhen``> It's version 6.4.1

[16:30] <Aankhen``> Built Pugs successfully yesterday, haven't tried again till now.

[16:31] <audreyt> try incremental rebuild

[16:31] <TimToady> audreyt: Might be the new retry stuff.  By the way, I think the syntax the retry stuff could probably use some improvement.

[16:31] <Aankhen``> How, audreyt?

[16:31] <audreyt> also try upping to 6.4.2 which fixes random runtime system bugs

[16:31] *** fglock joined
[16:31] <audreyt> Aankhen``: "nmake"

[16:32] <audreyt> TimToady: cool. what kind of improvement?

[16:32] <Aankhen``> Well, running that anyway.

[16:32] <TimToady> what's the relationship to "try", for one?

[16:32] <audreyt> no relationship, so it's perhaps not a wonderful name

[16:32] <audreyt> semantically it's "rollback and redo"

[16:32] <TimToady> I also tend to avoid builtins with underscore

[16:33] <audreyt> yeah, though it's a method name

[16:33] <audreyt> but yeah.

[16:33] <TimToady> and {...}.foo:{...} is not a wonderfulness

[16:33] * fglock pugsblogged 

[16:33] <TimToady> why is it a method?

[16:33] <TimToady> It looks like adding properties to an object via method call.

[16:34] <TimToady> I understand it isn't, but still.

[16:34] <audreyt> and I'd agree. it's also kinda horrible to have to type retry thrice

[16:34] <audreyt> in

[16:34] <audreyt>         { $a > 100 or retry }.retry_with:{ $a < -100 or retry }

[16:34] <Aankhen``> Okay, looks like it built this time.

[16:34] <audreyt> so yeah. could definitely use ergonomics enhancements

[16:34] <TimToady> I also wonder about the implicitness of the control state, and whether this is a good place for implicit state.

[16:35] <TimToady> and the semantics seem unclear when you "run off the end".

[16:35] <audreyt> "run off the end"?

[16:35] <TimToady> one might expect it to try the first thing again round robin.

[16:36] <audreyt> that is the semantic.

[16:36] <TimToady> so basically, how is this different from a switch based on some more explicit state that can be incremented by retry?

[16:36] <audreyt> well, it's composable

[16:36] <audreyt> so in

[16:36] <TimToady> not stated anywhere that I've seen...

[16:37] <TimToady> (round robin)

[16:37] <audreyt> retrywith_(A,B,retry_with(C1,C2))

[16:37] <audreyt> it goes A->B->C1->C2->A

[16:37] *** coumbes joined
[16:38] <audreyt> but if this chain is part of something larger

[16:38] <audreyt> then at end of C2 retry it goes back to that larger chain's start

[16:38] <audreyt> when you fall off, basically it looks to the beginning of the entire atomically

[16:38] <audreyt> and reenter from there

[16:38] <TimToady> okay, I don't mind that.

[16:39] <TimToady> I'll stick to syntactic carpage then.

[16:39] <audreyt> yay

[16:39] <audreyt> please fix the example/tests accordingly and I'll deal

[16:39] *** chris2 joined
[16:40] <TimToady> have to think about that some...

[16:40] <TimToady> did you see my "minimal" test for the pge dumpage?

[16:40] <audreyt> yup. I can't duplicate it at all

[16:40] <audreyt> so maybe I'll just grab your laptop in chicago

[16:40] <audreyt> seems easiest

[16:40] <TimToady> whack on it in Chi

[16:41] <TimToady> nod

[16:41] <particle_> whazzamatternow? pge test that can't be duplicated?

[16:41] <audreyt> embed parrot tests

[16:42] <audreyt> parrot embed is... a continuous exercise

[16:42] <TimToady> probably the same exception handling snafu we ran into earlier, or similar

[16:42] <audreyt> nod

[16:43] <TimToady> the assertion failure is saying that something is on the free list unexpectedly.

[16:43] <TimToady> or off the free list unexpectedly, depending on how you look at it...

[16:44] <particle_> hrmm, does disabling parrot gc make any difference? or is this a pugs free list

[16:44] <audreyt> it's the parrot free list

[16:44] <TimToady> it'll be easier to diagnose in Chicago

[16:44] <audreyt> if we had a way to recover from IMCC errors

[16:44] <audreyt> then this probably will be much easier

[16:45] <audreyt> as it stands, an invalid rule triggers a core exit() from parrot

[16:45] <audreyt> and there's no way to trap it

[16:45] <particle_> that is trouble for embedders everywhere

[16:45] <audreyt> so I did a setjmp/longjmp myself

[16:45] <audreyt> which uncovers interesting misassumptions

[16:45] <audreyt> namely only one parrot can be embedded at one time

[16:45] <audreyt> since they share Parrot_exit chain

[16:45] <audreyt> etc, etc.

[16:45] <particle_> aha

[16:47] <particle_> audreyt: to get to seattle by 6:30p safely we should probably leave redmond around 5p

[16:47] <particle_> doable?

[16:47] <audreyt> sure

[16:49] <svnbot6> r10825 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - better error messages

[16:51] *** shachaf joined
[16:57] <TimToady> audreyt: does atomically {...} trap exceptions?

[16:57] <audreyt> not by itself, no

[16:58] <audreyt> it's more of a "do" than a "try"

[16:58] <TimToady> so do we lose track of things if we propagate an exception out of one without explicit retry?

[16:59] <audreyt> speak in code please :)

[16:59] <TimToady> atomically {  { fail } orelse { ... } } does what?

[17:02] <TimToady> either atomically notices the exception going by and cleans up, or the transaction has to be GCed at some point to roll it back.

[17:02] <TimToady> and how does this interact with continuations that might have been taken inside?

[17:03] <audreyt> one thing at a time

[17:03] <audreyt> re exceptions

[17:03] <audreyt> it's modelled as a "shift" to the nearest reset

[17:03] <audreyt> reset being a control exception or normal exception boundary

[17:04] <audreyt> typically a subroutine or a try{} block

[17:04] <audreyt> if that boundary is outside atomic

[17:04] <audreyt> then all the changes so far is rolled back

[17:04] <audreyt> it behaves asif the atomic block havn't happened

[17:05] <TimToady> but not on "return"?

[17:05] <audreyt> it's the same

[17:05] <audreyt> if the subroutine boundary is outside atomic

[17:05] <audreyt> then it's discarded as well

[17:05] <audreyt> only the returned value remains

[17:05] <TimToady> that's counterintuitive

[17:05] <TimToady> a return is a "succeed" rather than a fail.

[17:05] <audreyt> but in p6 semantic it triggers UNDO

[17:06] <TimToady> no, triggers KEEP

[17:07] <audreyt> hrm

[17:07] <svnbot6> r10826 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - simple 'for'

[17:07] <audreyt> so it's abnormal

[17:07] <audreyt> but "good"

[17:07] *** fglock left
[17:08] <audreyt> ok. then we can tie it with the UNDO/KEEP distinction

[17:08] <audreyt> atomic is rolled back (or orElse'ed) if it's UNDOish

[17:08] <audreyt> and simply concluded if it's KEEPish

[17:08] <TimToady> it seems like a useful unification.

[17:08] <TimToady> I see that "Definition of Success" is ambigous: uses "exception" to mean "bad exception".

[17:09] <audreyt> indeed

[17:09] <audreyt> that's the source of my confusion

[17:10] <TimToady> but then is retry just a fail()?

[17:10] <audreyt> slightly different

[17:10] <audreyt> a fail doesn't reenter atomic block

[17:11] <audreyt> unless you make "atomically" a sort of autoretrying try{}

[17:11] <TimToady> okay, it's really a different control exception that's "semibad"

[17:11] <audreyt> nod

[17:11] <TimToady> you want it to bypass normal exception handlers inside anyway, like a return.

[17:12] <TimToady> sort of an "oops" control exception.

[17:12] <particle_> as opposed to "oops, i did it again?" ;)

[17:12] <TimToady> okay, I think that gives me enough to think about for naming purposes.

[17:13] <TimToady> no, it won't be oops().  :)

[17:13] *** lollan joined
[17:13] <TimToady> though {...} oops {...} oops {...} has a certain cachet...

[17:16] <snowstalker> Beginner question : In P-C-P6, hello_world.pl has 'use v6-pugs;' , how does it know to read lib/v6.pm ? I am trying to read `perldoc Module::Compile` but I haven't grokked this part yet ...

[17:18] <TimToady> it does that basically because P5 doesn't grok hyphens in module names.

[17:19] <TimToady> or at least doesn't grok them the same way P6 does.

[17:20] <snowstalker> TimToady, So it is convention that we use 'v6-pugs' ?

[17:20] <theorbtwo> perl -MO=Deparse,-p -e'use v6-pugs;'

[17:21] <TimToady> hmm, it's more like one of those "two language hacks" that are interpreted differently, so it's not just convention.

[17:22] <TimToady> it's depending on a particular way in which P5's lexer lies to the parser.

[17:23] <TimToady> but also on the way that P6 parses module names that contain version info.

[17:23] <snowstalker> theorbtwo, $ perl -MO=Deparse,-p -e'use v6-pugs;'

[17:23] <snowstalker> Can't open -e for input:

[17:23] <snowstalker> No such file or directory at /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.8.8/Module/Compile.pm line 155.

[17:23] <snowstalker> BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at -e line 1.

[17:23] <snowstalker> use v6 ((-'pugs'));

[17:23] <snowstalker> TimToady, Ok I still haven't grokked on what the 'pugs' part of the name ties to ?

[17:23] <TimToady> in particular that a module name starting with a version has an implicit Perl- in the front of it, indicating the version is really talking about the Perl version.

[17:23] <snowstalker> Is it related to the lib/Pugs dir ?

[17:24] <TimToady> it is if v6.pm decides it is.

[17:24] <snowstalker> aah ok

[17:24] <TimToady> under P5 it just comes in as an import list arg

[17:24] <TimToady> see your results above

[17:25] <TimToady> so it's basically just a very useful complete and utter hack

[17:25] <TimToady> which has never slowed us down before.  :)

[17:26] <TimToady> fortunately the P6 interpretation of it is rather less hacky.

[17:27] <TimToady> though it's still a very Special Case syntactically.

[17:27] <audreyt> (that, again, has never slowed us down before)

[17:27] <audreyt> the House of Cards is a noble house!

[17:27] <TimToady> speaking of the house, I need to leave it and go to work...

[17:28] <audreyt> actually, same here

[17:28] * audreyt goes check in for the final day of Redmond Hackathon

[17:28] <TimToady> have the appropriate amount of "fun".  I'm reminded that "fun" means something entirely different in Japanese...

[17:28] <snowstalker> TimToady, heh I understand it a li'l better now

[17:29] <TimToady> I wonder what Japanese think when they see -Ofun

[17:29] <TimToady> "fun" basically meaning ç³ž

[17:31] <TimToady> later then &

[17:31] <bpphillips> reference: http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/7cde/index.htm

[17:31] <miyagawa> "fun" basically means U+697D

[17:32] <theorbtwo> Er, "with noodles"?

[17:32] <miyagawa> or, "Raku"

[17:36] <ZuluOne> Has anyone had any thoughts about my recent p6l post on binding names to types?

[17:36] <ZuluOne> "me" being [email@hidden.address]
[17:38] <Juerd> What does Japanese "fun" mean then?

[17:38] <Juerd> And what's "raku"?

[17:38] <miyagawa> Japanese "fun" = "shit"

[17:38] <bpphillips> the character TimToady pasted: http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/7cde/index.htm

[17:39] <miyagawa> bpphillips: yeah, that is a kanji character for "shit"

[17:39] <obra> heh

[17:39] <miyagawa> and is pronounced as "fun" in Japanese

[17:40] <miyagawa> or "kuso"

[17:40] <ZuluOne> Actually, I kinda like -Oshit

[17:40] <bpphillips> let's stick to "manure, dung, night soil" :-)

[17:40] <ZuluOne> It carries connotations of "optimize the manure, dung, night soil out of it"

[17:40] <Steve_p> Where's the fun in that?  ;)

[17:41] <miyagawa> however, when we say "fun" it sounds more like "fecal stuff" i.e. nothing negative

[17:41] <ZuluOne> oh, shame

[17:41] <miyagawa> when we say "kuso", it's just like English "Oh, shit!"

[17:44] *** binary42 joined
[17:45] *** binary42 left
[17:45] <Juerd> Hmm, okay. That makes optimizings for fun rather interesting indeed.

[17:45] <Juerd> And this "raku" thing? Does that mean anything?

[17:46] <Juerd> There's a local company called Raku... I wonder if it also means something fecal

[17:46] <miyagawa> Oh, okay. I meant "fun" in English maps to "Raku" Kanji character, which means "fun"

[17:46] <miyagawa> or "easy"

[17:46] <miyagawa> so nothing related to the shitty stuff there

[17:47] <Juerd> ah

[17:47] <Juerd> Too bad :)

[17:47] <miyagawa> :)

[17:47] <FurnaceBoy> hmm, interesting-- raku is a ceramic process too.

[18:02] <theorbtwo> Hmm, perhaps I was thinking of Chinese "fun", not Japanese "Fun"?

[18:02] <theorbtwo> As in "Chow Fun".

[18:03] * theorbtwo shrugs.

[18:03] <theorbtwo> Everything I know about Chinese I learned from reading menus.

[18:04] <TimToady> Japanese "fun" is pronounced "fen4" in Mandarin.

[18:05] <TimToady> I always like "raku" because it's close to "rakuda" and "rakudai".

[18:05] <TimToady> which is "camel" and "failure in a test".

[18:07] <TimToady> and, actually, English "fun" gets borrowed as "fan" in Japanese, pronounced like "fawn" in English, more or less.

[18:07] <bpphillips> TimToady: what portion of your life has given you the opportunity to learn so much about Japanese?

[18:08] <TimToady> the last five years, mostly.  and a bunch of anima watching otakuhood before that.

[18:08] * theorbtwo remembers the long months of waiting for TimToady to come down the mountian and publish some apocolypses.

[18:17] *** audreyt_ joined
[18:17] <szbalint> Thanks for your comments nothingmuch on p6l.

[18:35] *** wilx joined
[18:47] *** FurnaceBoy_ joined
[18:49] *** justatheory joined
[18:58] *** dduncan joined
[19:18] *** audreyt_ joined
[19:23] *** FurnaceBoy_ is now known as FB|afk

[19:25] *** Stoffie joined
[19:25] <Stoffie> hi

[19:29] <audreyt_> greetings

[19:32] *** wilx joined
[19:41] *** coumbes joined
[19:42] *** fglock joined
[19:47] <svnbot6> r10827 | audreyt++ | * Some more changelogging, now at r10207

[19:48] *** renormalist joined
[19:51] *** bpphillips left
[19:58] <fglock> I added a note on the blog about PC-P6 failing tests

[20:01] <audreyt_> danke

[20:01] <svnbot6> r10828 | audreyt++ | * Up to 10312

[20:01] <audreyt_> as putter   has always reminded us

[20:02] <audreyt_> expectation management is important :)

[20:02] <fglock> yup

[20:08] <Kattana> TimToady: ping

[20:12] <ingy> hi

[20:21] <svnbot6> r10829 | audreyt++ | * chglog up to r10465

[20:22] *** rzoz joined
[20:24] <svnbot6> r10830 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - pass 01-sanity/07-for.t

[20:25] <particle_> is there a mailing list for pugs commits?

[20:25] *** FB|afk is now known as Furnabceoy

[20:31] <audreyt_> particle: http://lists.utsl.gen.nz/pipermail/pugs-commits/

[20:32] <particle_> excellent, thx.

[20:33] <audreyt_> np :)

[20:33] <svnbot6> r10831 | fglock++ | ChangeLog - fixed example: use v6-pugs; say "Perl 6"; use v5; print "Perl 5"

[20:48] <svnbot6> r10832 | fglock++ | PC-P6 - added 'not implemented' message for 'use v5'

[20:49] <fglock> audreyt_: would you write the Makefile.PL for PC-P6? I'm not sure of the Module::Compile requirements

[20:59] *** bernhard joined
[21:15] *** mj41_ joined
[21:18] <audreyt_> fglock: just use Module::Install plus a line of pmc_support();

[21:18] <audreyt_> ingy: maybe you can help :)

[21:18] * audreyt_ is deep in releng

[21:21] <svnbot6> r10833 | audreyt++ | * Finish this pass of changelogging, yay!

[21:27] <audreyt_> good news: according to emeijer, the cleanest way to do calldynamic and the entire metaobject protocol on CLR is just CreateTransparentProxy

[21:27] <audreyt_> bad news: Mono doesn't implement it ;)

[21:27] <ZuluOne> *sighI

[21:27] <ZuluOne> s/I/*/

[21:28] * audreyt_ ponders finding some mono people to talk about that

[21:28] <audreyt_> because the alternative seems to be swapping out vtable with unmanaged code

[21:28] <audreyt_> which stragely reminds me of pugs/src/pge/parrotembed.c...

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | cperl-mode.el:

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * sync'd with ilyaz' cperl-mode 5.19

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * more Twigils

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * no longer recognize qr for regex quoting in Perl6-mode

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * lots of keywords and highlighting regardless of Perl5- or Perl6-mode

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * more keywords:

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ |   - rx, loop, take, taken, state, any, all, one, none,

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ |   - completed list of immutable and mutable types (from S06)

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ |   (maybe a list of english words that are not Perl6 keywords

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ |   would be easier to maintain ... :-)

[21:30] *** xerox_ joined
[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * corrected indenting after class blocks without ";"

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * more simple "looks-like-perl6-code" heuristics

[21:30] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | lib/Pugs/Doc/Hack.pod:

[21:31] <svnbot6> r10834 | renormalist++ | * cperl6-mode --> cperl-mode

[21:36] <audreyt_> hm, of course it's unplemented, because it's undocumented, not part of MSDN, hidden from code browser

[21:37] <audreyt_> and generally a very backdoory hack

[21:37] <audreyt_> ...which is stable and maintained and used internally by remoting

[21:37] <audreyt_> why am I not surprised ;)

[21:39] *** fglock joined
[21:41] <audreyt_> hm, mono does support it internally, it's just not exposed

[21:41] <audreyt_> so maybe it's a simple thing to expose it at mono level, instead of writing unmanaged code

[21:42] <TimToady> Kattana: pong

[21:43] <audreyt_> hm, that seems to be the answer to the flyweight reference thing Chip wanted for parrot

[21:47] <nothingmuch> TimToady: has anyone from @Larry played with Moose yet?

[21:48] <nothingmuch> or more importantly, Class::MOP? (i know that chromatic played with it a bit, but only for introspection)

[21:51] <svnbot6> r10835 | renormalist++ | - cperl-mode.el: twiddled with qr and rx ("backharmonizing")

[21:51] <fglock> nothingmuch: what should I use to implement p6 class semantics in v6-pugs (no sugar needed)

[21:52] <fglock> is there overhead for using Moose?

[21:52] <fglock> like extra sub calls

[21:52] <nothingmuch> Moose's overhead is quite big actually (right now)

[21:53] <nothingmuch> because it uses introspection and doesn't memoize/inline enough things yet

[21:53] <audreyt_> t should get Module::Compile'd :)

[21:55] <fglock> nothingmuch: you could implement Moose in p6 (depends on how complex it is)

[21:55] <nothingmuch> audreyt_: soon =)

[21:55] <nothingmuch> audreyt_: my plan (which will, with ample force, become stevan's plan), is to first lay down some caching rules

[21:55] <nothingmuch> once we know what is safe to cache and when, we can then add persistent memoizationw ith MC

[21:55] <nothingmuch> and also code inlining with MC

[21:56] <nothingmuch> especially if the class becomes closed

[21:56] <audreyt_> fglock: it will be very metacircular indeed :)

[21:56] <audreyt_> nothingmuch: Moose doesn't yet have "is open" annotations right?

[21:56] *** stephanepayrard_ joined
[21:56] <audreyt_> last I checked it has no classwide annotations

[21:56] <audreyt_> such as "class Foo is rw"

[21:57] <fglock> audreyt_: my plan is to rewrite the emitter in p6 soon - it is simple enough

[21:57] <nothingmuch> audreyt_: not yet

[21:57] <fglock> but first, implement P6 closures inside rules using v6 instead of source filter

[21:58] <nothingmuch> class is rw?

[21:58] <nothingmuch> is that like the default attr thing?

[21:58] <nothingmuch> btw, i've been noticing that all my recent projects (Monju, Class::Workflow, etc) have had good support for purely functional usage using readonly objects

[21:58] <nothingmuch> what's Perl's level of support for haskell like records

[21:58] <nothingmuch> where you derive a copy

[21:58] <nothingmuch> with only some fields overridden?

[21:59] <audreyt_> that's called COW

[21:59] <svnbot6> r10836 | Sage++ | Adding design docs

[21:59] <svnbot6> r10837 | Sage++ | Adding design docs

[21:59] <audreyt_> and is not present anywhere

[21:59] <audreyt_> so you have to fake it with double refs

[21:59] <audreyt_> which is sad

[21:59] <nothingmuch> it's not just COW

[22:00] <nothingmuch> it's mostly the lightweight syntax

[22:00] <nothingmuch> oh, and I mean Perl 6

[22:00] <nothingmuch> =)

[22:00] <audreyt_> heh

[22:00] <audreyt_> $obj.clone(overridden=>'value')

[22:00] <audreyt_> is probably it

[22:00] <nothingmuch> ah

[22:00] <nothingmuch> like Moose gives me now

[22:00] <audreyt_> on value objects that can maximize sharing

[22:00] <svnbot6> r10838 | Sage++ | Adding design docs

[22:00] <svnbot6> r10839 | Sage++ | Adding testing material

[22:00] <audreyt_> yes

[22:00] <nothingmuch> on any attr is rw it can maxaimize sharing =)

[22:01] <audreyt_> eh, uhm, hm?

[22:01] <audreyt_> on "is rw" you have to actually copy

[22:01] <nothingmuch> err

[22:01] <audreyt_> only on "is readonly" you can share

[22:01] <nothingmuch> i meant ir ro

[22:01] <nothingmuch> yeah

[22:01] <audreyt_> k

[22:01] <nothingmuch> oh, you meant non-deep isro

[22:01] <Kattana> TimToady: still there? just wondering if you got that pm the other day

[22:01] <svnbot6> r10840 | Sage++ | Adding personal copy

[22:02] <nothingmuch> doesn't Perl 6 have cow by default, btw?

[22:02] <audreyt_> COW is a runtime feature

[22:02] <audreyt_> not a language feature

[22:02] <audreyt_> if the runtime has support for that in object layout, sure

[22:02] <audreyt_> if not, we can't

[22:02] <nothingmuch> i mean as a general rule

[22:02] <audreyt_> I don't think so, no

[22:02] <audreyt_> there's no "tail calls must be fast" like dictate in the Syns

[22:03] <nothingmuch> although it's transparent, performance does affect people's decisions on design

[22:03] <nothingmuch> hmm

[22:03] <nothingmuch> oh well

[22:03] <audreyt_> the runtime profile for perl6 is very blurry to all involved...

[22:03] <audreyt_> maybe because we don't want to evaluate sqrt($evil)

[22:03] *** renormalist left
[22:04] <nothingmuch> yeah, but some things are obviously needed, like bigint support, and STM and stuff

[22:04] <nothingmuch> that is, they can go missing

[22:04] <nothingmuch> but there's no real way to support full Perl 6 without this

[22:04] <audreyt_> we don't get STM when targetting JS

[22:04] <nothingmuch> likewise, s04 (?) talks about packed arrays

[22:04] <audreyt_> bigint support may vary depending on platform

[22:04] <nothingmuch> it's not a requirement

[22:04] <ZuluOne> surely sqrt(all($evil)), even though they are equivalent?

[22:04] <nothingmuch> but it's a hint

[22:04] <audreyt_> nod

[22:04] <nothingmuch> encouraging better design to make use of the extra value on runtimes that do give a damn

[22:05] <audreyt_> well, you are in charge of one of the runtimes :)

[22:05] <audreyt_> so if you give a damn, we'll work on it :)

[22:05] <nothingmuch> which one is that gain?

[22:05] <audreyt_> Moose?

[22:05] <nothingmuch> oh

[22:05] <nothingmuch> i didn't know i was ;-)

[22:05] <audreyt_> I thought you are a Moose committer and generally hacking on it :)

[22:05] <nothingmuch> yes

[22:06] <audreyt_> well then :)

[22:06] <nothingmuch> but I didn't know i was responsible ;-)

[22:06] <audreyt_> fair enough

[22:07] <nothingmuch> fglock: the best bet is to probably sort out the Perl 6 MOP WRT moose

[22:07] <nothingmuch> and see how you can translate to that

[22:07] <nothingmuch> you'll probably want to use Class:::MOP

[22:07] <nothingmuch> and not Moose itself

[22:07] <nothingmuch> since Moose is to Class::MOP a bit like Perl 6 is to the object space

[22:07] <nothingmuch> (only it's very Perl 5 specific in it's impl)

[22:07] <audreyt_> otoh, Roles are in Moose not in C::MOP

[22:08] <audreyt_> so would make sense to reuse

[22:08] <nothingmuch> well

[22:08] <nothingmuch> Moose::Meta stuff is still Class::MOP

[22:08] <nothingmuch> Moose itself is the sugar layer

[22:08] <audreyt_> yup

[22:08] <audreyt_> so use M::M

[22:08] <audreyt_> not Moose

[22:08] <audreyt_> is what I meant

[22:08] <nothingmuch> aye

[22:08] <nothingmuch> fglock: if you want a quick overview:

[22:08] <fglock> M::M?

[22:08] <nothingmuch> Moose::Meta::*

[22:08] <audreyt_> Moose::Meta

[22:09] <nothingmuch> you have Meta::Class which you can subclass

[22:09] <nothingmuch> every perl namespace that was touched by moose has an instance of a meta class

[22:09] <nothingmuch> the meta class can introspect and also change the namespace

[22:09] <nothingmuch> you can think of the namespace in the symbol table as part of it's instance data

[22:09] <nothingmuch> it deals with several other objects:

[22:10] <nothingmuch> Class::MOP::Method (simple, and also wrapped/augmented/hooked methods)

[22:10] <nothingmuch> Moose::Meta::Attribute

[22:10] <nothingmuch> (an attribute is the interface part - the name, the accessors, the constraints and coercions)

[22:10] <nothingmuch> and Moose::Meta::Instance

[22:10] <nothingmuch> which describes the structure of the instance and performs slot allocation

[22:10] <nothingmuch> (potentially this can be static)

[22:11] <nothingmuch> attrs interface with the meta instance to allocate storage slots

[22:11] <nothingmuch> then you have Moose:::Object which implements ->new that calls meta->isntance->create_instance, and then lets all the attrs handle the params, and then calls BUILDALL which does every BUILD

[22:11] <nothingmuch> and err, that's it

[22:11] <nothingmuch> as for Roles - they have everything deferred

[22:12] <nothingmuch> that is, on compotision they apply their stuff to the class they are being composed into

[22:12] <nothingmuch> i hope that helps you know where to look now =)

[22:12] <nothingmuch> join #moose on irc.perl.org if you want more detailed info

[22:13] <fglock> k

[22:14] <fglock> v6.pm will probably just use Moose first, and then optimize

[22:15] <nothingmuch> it's not a matter of optimization

[22:15] <audreyt_> not even sure we want to optimize on the v6.pm level

[22:15] <nothingmuch> Class::MOP's api is probably just more robust for programatic invocation

[22:15] <audreyt_> nothingmuch: we are codegenning p5

[22:15] <nothingmuch> yeah

[22:15] <audreyt_> and whenever sugar makes sense

[22:15] <audreyt_> that will help people debugging

[22:15] <nothingmuch> hmm

[22:16] <nothingmuch> but Moose and Perl 6 are not 1:1

[22:16] <nothingmuch> so that could be trouble

[22:16] <audreyt_> there is no reason why a subset of Moose cannot be all Perl6 needs

[22:16] <nothingmuch> well

[22:16] <audreyt_> and if they disagree on internal metaclass handling logic

[22:16] <nothingmuch> whatever works =)

[22:16] <audreyt_> then we need to fight it out in Chicago :)

[22:16] <nothingmuch> then you can just write Class::MOP::Perl6

[22:16] <audreyt_> I just don't see why we need that :)

[22:16] <nothingmuch> although IMHO Moose should try and mimic Perl 6 as closely as possible

[22:17] <audreyt_> if they fundamentally differ on the meta level

[22:17] <audreyt_> that's going to confuse people using p5 sugar

[22:17] <audreyt_> and hinder v6.pm adoption

[22:17] <nothingmuch> i don't think they differ substantiall, and i'm sure they don't differ fundamentally

[22:17] <fglock> bbiab - will backlog &

[22:17] <nothingmuch> but perhaps they do subtly

[22:17] <audreyt_> so different sugar is fine, but the M::M shoudl agree

[22:17] <audreyt_> yeah, so we need to iron those things out

[22:17] <nothingmuch> right

[22:17] *** fglock left
[22:17] <audreyt_> one good way is p6izing the moose tests :)

[22:17] <nothingmuch> that's why i asked TimToady if anyone played with it =)

[22:17] <audreyt_> but we'll see.

[22:18] <audreyt_> (I've p6ized the cookbooks, and there's only two things: object layout and subset vs subtype)

[22:18] <audreyt_> p6 allows this

[22:18] *** Limbic_Region joined
[22:19] <nothingmuch> object layout?

[22:19] <audreyt_> class Foo { has $.x; method foo { $.x = 1 } }

[22:19] <audreyt_> (if I'm not mistaken)

[22:19] <nothingmuch> splain

[22:19] <audreyt_> but in Moose it has to be

[22:19] <audreyt_> class Foo { has $.x; method foo { self.<x> = 1 } }

[22:20] <audreyt_> because ro slots are ro even within class body

[22:20] <audreyt_> so you need to peek into the layout

[22:20] <audreyt_> which is not portable across layouts

[22:20] <nothingmuch> oh

[22:20] <nothingmuch> caller sensitive ro behavior is a long TODO

[22:20] <audreyt_> ("layout" here means "repr" in PIL^N land)

[22:20] <nothingmuch> btw

[22:20] <nothingmuch> self.<x> isa nono

[22:20] <audreyt_> well the cookbook use that

[22:20] <audreyt_> on the first page

[22:20] <nothingmuch> $self->meta->meta_instance->set_slot("x", 1) } ;-)

[22:20] <audreyt_> so *shrug*

[22:20] <nothingmuch> yeah

[22:20] <nothingmuch> long argument with stevan

[22:21] <nothingmuch> of course, that should have an inlinable version

[22:21] <nothingmuch> since meta_instance does not typically change during runtime

[22:21] <audreyt_> just have caller sensitive accessors ;)

[22:21] <audreyt_> so, why is it a nono?

[22:21] <audreyt_> surely we can go the other way with tying?

[22:21] <nothingmuch> well

[22:21] <nothingmuch> because meta instances are opaque

[22:22] <audreyt_> I mean tie $x

[22:22] <audreyt_> $self

[22:22] <nothingmuch> oh

[22:22] <nothingmuch> sure

[22:22] <audreyt_> so that <x> resolves to meta instance call

[22:22] <nothingmuch> yeah

[22:22] <audreyt_> that's one way to fix the mismatch

[22:22] <nothingmuch> that's just a meta attr class

[22:22] <audreyt_> for sugar, it's perhaps best

[22:22] <nothingmuch> i think

[22:22] <nothingmuch> either that or Want lvalue

[22:22] <nothingmuch> want assign

[22:22] <audreyt_> yeah, but the cookbook is currently broken wrt the p6 callconv

[22:22] <audreyt_> yeah

[22:22] <nothingmuch> yep

[22:22] <nothingmuch> i'll sit on stevan's head so that he'll fix it

[22:23] <audreyt_> cool!

[22:23] <audreyt_> yay to a head-sitting nothingmuch

[22:23] <nothingmuch> so far i've bulldozed him into supporting a few perl 6 subtleties

[22:23] <nothingmuch> but mostly out of the interest of translating Moose code to Perl 6

[22:23] <audreyt_> is bulldozing more painful than railroading?

[22:23] <audreyt_> nod. the roundtrip should be canonical

[22:23] <nothingmuch> anyway, sleepy time

[22:23] <audreyt_> good night

[22:23] <audreyt_> see you in Chicago

[22:24] <nothingmuch> i dunno how painful railroading is

[22:24] <nothingmuch> indeed!

[22:24] <nothingmuch> btw, is balas coming?

[22:24] <audreyt_> to Boston

[22:24] <audreyt_> not Chicago

[22:24] <nothingmuch> ah

[22:24] <nothingmuch> well

[22:24] <nothingmuch> *poof*

[22:24] <audreyt_> ...and he disappeared in a smoke of logic

[22:24] <obra> heh

[22:58] <rafl> Juerd: No. I wanted to be at the southside festival at this weekend and didn't make it.

[23:00] *** mako132_ joined
[23:01] * particle_ pings audreyt_

[23:04] <particle_> audrey: i'm leaving in ~15min. please meet at 5p at *south* side of bldg 35, if possible. you have my number, if you don't see me or plans change. see you soon.

[23:04] <particle_> particle &

[23:11] <audreyt_> ok, will be there

[23:12] *** KingDiamond joined
[23:12] *** premshree_ joined
[23:12] *** premshree_ left
[23:13] *** premshree__ joined
[23:13] *** premshree_ joined
[23:14] *** premshree_ left
[23:14] *** premshree__ left
[23:17] <stevan> audreyt_:  the Moose::Cookbooks need updating badly

[23:17] <stevan> the $self->{x} was from before we added the instance protocol

[23:17] <stevan> it will eventually go away

[23:17] * stevan just needs to find enough @time away from $work

[23:19] <stevan> as for Perl 6 <-> Moose ... they will *always* be compatible on some level

[23:20] <stevan> they will always be subsets/supersets of one another

[23:20] <stevan> for instance, Perl 6's MOP will have more to it then Moose

[23:21] <stevan> this is because Perl 6 MOP will likely control access to packages, where as with Moose, you can always just bypass the MOP and use symbol table hackery

[23:22] <audreyt_> er with p6 you can always go into the runtime too

[23:22] <audreyt_> that's not a problem

[23:22] <audreyt_> Moose is both a p5-runtime level thing

[23:22] <audreyt_> and a conceptual protocol

[23:22] <stevan> yeah

[23:22] <audreyt_> I only care about the latter

[23:22] <audreyt_> as you surely would agree :)

[23:23] <stevan> but in Perl 6 we can make sure that you always go through the MOP on some level right?

[23:23] <audreyt_> that's the entire idea :)

[23:23] <audreyt_> sure

[23:23] <stevan> yes I agree,. the runtime internals are not as important as the conceptual details

[23:24] <stevan> Moose will have things like before/after/around and augment/inner too.. but those are just toys I like

[23:24] <stevan> if I can sell @Larry on them, then P6 can have em too :)

[23:25] <stevan> augment/inner is really useful,.. I have to write up a nice cookbook for it

[23:25] <stevan> but yes,.. in the end,.. I am always trying to make sure that Moose and Perl 6 play nice

[23:27] <audreyt_> I like that brendan on the very beginning of JS2 talk

[23:27] <audreyt_> says that the migration strategy is JS2->JS1 period

[23:27] <audreyt_> and everything else comes later

[23:27] <audreyt_> I really think that's the way forward for P6 as well :)

[23:27] <stevan> I am not sure I understand

[23:27] * stevan has not seen the talk maybe

[23:28] <audreyt_> the P6 equivalent would be that ensuring P6->P5 backtranslation on P5 runtime works first

[23:28] <audreyt_> before doing any other runtime compat tricks

[23:28] <stevan> ah yes

[23:28] <stevan> well as long the metamodels have a strong enough conceptual similarity ,.. it should be fine

[23:28] <audreyt_> because that nets them a self hosting js2 compiler that can run on js1

[23:29] <audreyt_> and effectively reference implementation of internals

[23:29] <audreyt_> modeled on a subset of js1 semantic that we all know and love

[23:29] <audreyt_> (or not love, but at least familiar)

[23:29] <stevan> ah I see what you mean

[23:29] <audreyt_> which is what Moose effectively is doing, at least in part

[23:29] <stevan> it will get trickier when you get down to straight P5 stuff,.. non-OO/Moose

[23:30] <stevan> but that is what Moose::Autobox tried to explore

[23:31] <stevan> I agree too that v6.pm should use Moose::Meta::*, however that is not 100% stable yet

[23:31] <stevan> the role MOP needs work

[23:32] <stevan> audreyt_: I was looking at the YAPC schedule,.. your deploying p6 talk is the same time as my Moose talk

[23:33] <stevan> double the M??siness

[23:33] <stevan> se ;)

[23:35] *** mako132_ joined
[23:41] *** Ymmv joined
[23:44] <audreyt_> :)

[23:44] <audreyt_> Seattle.pm &

[23:45] <audreyt_> so we end up figuring out a type to do runtime MOP in CLR :D

[23:45] <audreyt_> by allocating a "type pool" of 100 uninstantiated static types in compile time

[23:46] <audreyt_> and at runtime whenever the MOP has a createClass or something like that, use one of the unallocated types and swap it out into dynamic types with transparent proxy

[23:46] <audreyt_> and once the 100 is exhausted, just create 100 more using Reflection

[23:46] <audreyt_> and it even works in mono

[23:46] <audreyt_> beautiful ;)

[23:53] <svnbot6> r10841 | audreyt++ | * Pugs::Lexer - make these two equivalent:

[23:53] <svnbot6> r10841 | audreyt++ |     my Foo $x;

[23:53] <svnbot6> r10841 | audreyt++ |     my ::Foo $x;

[23:53] <svnbot6> r10841 | audreyt++ |   previously the second one was assigning ::::Foo to $x.

[23:54] <ingy> hi audreyt_

[23:54] <audreyt_> yo ingy

[23:54] <ingy> is M::C on cpan not working with v6?

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ | * Introduce the (Ann Decl) form to eventually support this special form:

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |     state $x = 4;

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |   which must expand to

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |     FIRST { state $x = 4 }

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |   not sure if it's a parsetime or runtime distinction, and not sure

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |   if bindings get the same treatment:

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |     state $x := 4;

[23:54] <svnbot6> r10842 | audreyt++ |   TimToady? :)

[23:54] <audreyt_> not sure

[23:54] <audreyt_> it probably does

[23:55] <audreyt_> I gotta run to Seattle.pm meeting

[23:55] <ingy> ok, I'm about to get on a plane

[23:55] <ingy> I'll merge M::C into pugs tree

[23:55] <ingy> have fun

[23:55] <ingy> tell 'em ingy says yo

[23:57] <audreyt_> k :)

[23:57] <audreyt_> &

