[00:00] <eviltwin_b> I have a vague recollection of their trying to convert their entire repo and having the conversion script choke, but that was several months back

[00:01] <cmarcelo> Aankhen``: indeed it is.. gnome folks recently tried migrate everything to SVN twice and are still on CVS..

[00:01] <Aankhen``> Ouch.

[00:01] <clkao> really. i wonder why kde and gcc actaully migrated then

[00:03] <audreyt> reinvite all done.

[00:03] *** gnuvince joined
[00:03] <gnuvince> audreyt: thanks for the commit bit :)

[00:04] <audreyt> :)

[00:04] <gnuvince> Quick question though, the email mentionned that my username was gnuvince, but I chose vfoley in the registration dialog, does that change anything?<

[00:05] <awwaiid> what are you all doing, some sort of pyramid scheme? :)

[00:05] <audreyt> that's fine

[00:05] <audreyt> you can change nick anytime

[00:05] <eviltwin_b> probably depends on the complexity of the revision history

[00:05] <audreyt> awwaiid: yes!

[00:05] <awwaiid> hah

[00:05] <audreyt> awwaiid: want a commit bit? what's your email?

[00:05] <awwaiid> [email@hidden.address]
[00:06] <clkao> audreyt: the commitbit runs on weird 9999 port

[00:06] <gnuvince> cool domain name

[00:06] <audreyt> clkao: I know. jifty wants to be toplevel and I lack the fu to setup virtualhost on apache1 just today

[00:06] <audreyt> or, actually: how do I convince jifty to not be toplevel?

[00:07] <audreyt> i.e. /css/ and /__jifty/ etc

[00:07] <eviltwin_b> Pyramid of Unusual Global Size?

[00:07] <awwaiid> audreyt, also see perlbal for fancy virtualhost++ :)

[00:07] <audreyt> awwaiid: welcome aboard :) please add yourself to AUTHORS and commit

[00:07] <audreyt> that isn't a bad idea :)

[00:07] <audreyt> but, not today

[00:07] <awwaiid> right

[00:08] <clkao> audreyt: what do you use for diagram these days?

[00:08] <audreyt> clkao: OmniGraffle

[00:08] <audreyt> only piece of proprietary software I depend on, if you don't count the macintel kernel

[00:09] <smash_> nice top

[00:09] <smash_> (ups)

[00:10] <clkao> :/

[00:12] <obra> clkao: rumor is of a core duo to macbook this month

[00:12] <obra> want to slip the customer hsip date? ;)

[00:13] <audreyt> repairing evalbot

[00:13] <audreyt> syncd will have to wait

[00:13] *** evalbot_r14675 joined
[00:14] <audreyt> ?eval 1+1

[00:14] <evalbot_r14675> 2

[00:14] <clkao> hsip?

[00:21] *** dduncan joined
[00:22] *** Khisanth joined
[00:22] <[particle]> ship

[00:28] *** drbean joined
[00:31] *** electrogeek_brb is now known as electrogeek

[00:32] *** electrogeek is now known as electrogeek_off

[00:36] <svnbot6> r14676 | Sage++ | Adding a todo on the Perl5 to Perl6 translation. Since my work has slowed down because of school work, I thought I'd add some thoughts on where the code is going, to show what I'm considering for the future.

[00:37] <audreyt> journal and p6a posts up

[00:38] <audreyt> have fun, I'll fade now. see you tomorrow... &

[00:42] <smash_> Compiling Pugs.AST.Internals # is completely trashing my system

[00:48] *** mAdzzzzzz is now known as GabrielVieira

[00:48] <Patterner> hmm... "unknown host commitbit.pugscode.org"

[00:50] <[particle]> it should forward you to svn.pugscode.org:9999

[00:55] *** monkey___ joined
[00:56] *** diakopter joined
[00:57] *** lyokato joined
[01:02] <cj> audreyt: just got an email from you about a commit bit...

[01:02] <cj> Firefox can't establish a connection to the server at svn.pugscode.org:9999.

[01:03] <cj> sage: M-q

[01:05] <diakopter> dj: works for me.

[01:06] <diakopter> cj:

[01:06] <mugwump> did somebody just send out admin bits to everyone?

[01:07] <cmarcelo> mugwump: yes

[01:07] <eviltwin_b> pugs just relocated, and everyone's been re-invited

[01:08] <cmarcelo> there's a blog post with details on how change svn/svk to the new repo url..

[01:10] <cmarcelo> I think it was intentional giving meta-commits (admin) to everyone...

[01:11] <eviltwin_b> looked to me like everyone was an admin on openfoundry too

[01:12] <obra> not everybody got admin bits

[01:12] *** cjeris left
[01:15] <cmarcelo> obra: apparently diakopter is author but can see admin screens.. maybe its read-only?

[01:15] <diakopter> I guess I could try to update something temporarily just to test it.

[01:16] <obra> diakopter: change the punctuation of the pugs description

[01:16] <cmarcelo> diakopter: there's a people menu where you can delete people from project?

[01:16] <obra> diakopter: change the blurb on http://svn.pugscode.org:9999/admin/project/Pugs

[01:17] <lambdabot> Title: Login, http://tinyurl.com/yyyr6c

[01:20] <diakopter> oh good, it says permission denied.

[01:20] <diakopter> heh.

[01:21] <diakopter> all alarmed about nothing, I guess I was.

[01:21] <obra> oh good :)

[01:22] *** dmq joined
[01:24] <mugwump> is there going to be svnweb support or similar soon, obra ?

[01:24] <mugwump> oh, there's a url entry for it

[01:28] *** kanru joined
[01:34] *** ajg joined
[01:35] *** ajg left
[01:39] *** ajtgurney joined
[01:46] *** ajtgurney left
[01:46] *** fayland joined
[01:46] *** baest_ joined
[01:50] *** duend joined
[01:57] <Limbic_Region> question - Perl6::Grammar has been usurped by Pugs::Compiler::Rule but has PCR been usurped by anything?

[01:58] <Limbic_Region> and why is PCR called PCR if it is pure perl 5?

[02:01] <SamB> because it is in the pugs repo?

[02:02] <avar> Limbic_Region: Why do you think something being called "Pugs" and being written in p5 is mutually exclusive?

[02:03] <Limbic_Region> avar - I don't

[02:04] <Limbic_Region> it is an open question, actually asked by merlyn

[02:04] <Limbic_Region> SamB - but it is also on CPAN and it might be misleading to someone not in the know that they don't need Pugs to use it

[02:04] <Limbic_Region> namespaces can be confusing because ppl read more into them than is there

[02:05] <SamB> so?

[02:05] <Limbic_Region> SamB - I am not suggesting anything is wrong or that anything change

[02:05] <Limbic_Region> I am merely asking why it is the way it is (if there is a reason)

[02:06] <SamB> hysterical raisons?

[02:06] <Limbic_Region> yep, would be my guess

[02:06] <Limbic_Region> before it was completely p5

[02:06] <SamB> or before it was on CPAN

[02:07] <Limbic_Region> right

[02:10] <Limbic_Region> thanks

[02:16] *** araujo joined
[02:18] * araujo thanks audreyt for invitation :-)

[02:30] *** geoffb joined
[02:32] <araujo> audreyt, you and TimToady will make me screw up Pugs and then don't tell me i didn't warn you :-)

[02:33] <cj> araujo: we've got good docs about how things get screwed up, so we should be fine :)

[02:34] <araujo> cj, hah

[02:41] *** thepler_ joined
[02:43] *** boo is now known as beu

[02:44] <geoffb> audreyt: Just enabled my admin account under the new repo.  Noticed that the user management interface of CommitBit doesn't have a "bulk add", like many email addresses in one text box -- that might be a useful thing when you want to hand out bits to a several people.

[02:45] <geoffb> Oh, and thanks.  :-)

[02:51] <Limbic_Region> geoffb - she handed out lots and lots of bits at once - she scripted it

[02:55] <araujo> Limbic_Region, don't say that ... i wanted to feel *special*

[03:08] <buu> You are special!

[03:08] <cmarcelo> @tell audreyt in src/MO/Compile/Class.hs all_class_methods isn't getting the attribute accessors, I suppose this is intended but is /= from the conclusion I got talking to you yesterday (or before). just checking. (6.4.2 compatibility on the way...)

[03:09] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[03:11] *** justatheory joined
[03:12] *** justatheory joined
[03:35] *** mako132_ joined
[03:36] *** bsb joined
[04:01] * cj prepares to push some code

[04:14] *** scw joined
[04:19] *** SubStack joined
[04:19] <svnbot6> r14677 | cmarcelo++ | * src/MO: allows compilation in GHC 6.4.2.

[04:21] <pasteling> "cmarcelo" at 200.232.237.143 pasted "re MO(H): redefining "data NoResponse" to "data NoResponse m" .. check line 43 of src/MO/Run.hs" (28 lines, 784B) at http://sial.org/pbot/20966

[04:23] <cmarcelo> @tell audreyt check this paste when you can: http://sial.org/pbot/20966

[04:23] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[04:26] <cmarcelo> sleep &

[04:38] *** eggzeck joined
[04:46] *** justatheory joined
[05:05] *** autark_ joined
[05:05] <svnbot6> r14678 | zgh++ | - set %*ENV<REQUEST_METHOD> (for CGI)

[05:16] <gaal> oi. the rss feed is regurgitating very old commits...

[05:26] *** drrho joined
[05:53] *** duend is now known as duend`sleeping

[05:57] *** fayland joined
[06:14] *** baest_ is now known as baest

[06:15] *** BooK_ joined
[06:20] <geoffb> @tell Limbic_Region Yep, I knew that ... still, is there ever a bad reason to say "thank you"?  :-)

[06:20] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[06:25] *** bsb left
[06:37] *** buetow joined
[06:49] *** marmic joined
[06:54] *** kanru joined
[07:05] *** eggzeck joined
[07:20] *** Psyche^ joined
[07:26] *** lisppaste3 joined
[07:31] *** shar joined
[07:31] <svnbot6> r14679 | zgh++ | [CGI.pm]

[07:31] <svnbot6> r14679 | zgh++ |  - added self. to internal method calls in load_params

[07:33] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[08:12] *** nipotan is now known as nipotaway

[08:29] *** christopher joined
[08:30] <christopher> Now that the SVN server has relocated, is there a place where I can browse the revision log, like http://rt.openfoundry.org/Foundry/Project/Source/index.html/pugs/log/?Queue=1&limit=200&submit=Show%21 ?

[08:30] <lambdabot> Title: OpenFoundry&#40;自由軟體鑄􏿽xE9􏿽x80 􏿽xE5 􏿽xB4-專案開發平台&#41; -- OSSF, http://tinyurl.com/y2536v

[08:34] <masak> just wanted to report that the svn switch as advertised in the channel topic didn't work out for me

[08:35] <masak> however, a checkout from the new location did

[08:35] <christopher> masak: I think there should be "pugs" at the end of the first URL in the topic

[08:40] <masak> christopher: you might be right. can anyone (1) confirm that the current command in the topic doesn't work, but that christopher++'s addition does, and (2) change the topic?

[08:49] *** Psyche^ joined
[08:52] *** dakkar joined
[08:53] <dakkar> did something change in the hosting of Pugs? I just received a message asking me to set a password... but I already had an account on openfoundry

[08:53] <dakkar> ok, the topic tells something...

[08:54] <lumi> dakkar: The repository's been moved

[08:54] *** kensanata joined
[08:54] <dakkar> lumi: I assumed as much ;-) reasons?

[08:54] <lumi> Apparently that command in the topic doesn't work (I use svk so I didn't use it)

[08:54] <lumi> openfoundry goes down too much, I think?

[08:55] <dakkar> well, that command looks like it needs something after the «http://svn.openfoundry.org/» part

[08:57] <lumi> It probably wants a /pugs, yeah

[08:58] <lumi> If you're in svn, and adding that bit works, we can change the topic

[08:58] <dakkar> I don't have a worknig copy right now... it's in a backup disk, I rebuilt my machine last week

[09:00] <lumi> No worries then, but the password invites are real

[09:01] *** Schnueff joined
[09:01] <christopher> lumi: worked for me with "/pugs" when I tried with svn 4-5 hours ago

[09:05] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[09:05] <lumi> I'll try it..

[09:06] *** lumi changes topic to: svn switch --relocate http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/ | run.pugscode.org | spec.pugscode.org | paste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | pugs.blogs.com

[09:11] <xinming> lumi: How about svk?

[09:11] <xinming> :-p

[09:12] <lumi> svk mi --relocate //mirror/pugs http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/ # is what I did

[09:12] <lambdabot> Title: Revision 14679: /

[09:12] <lumi> Um thanks, lambdabot

[09:12] *** drrho joined
[09:29] *** kanru joined
[09:42] *** ludan joined
[09:53] *** fayland joined
[10:15] *** ofer0 joined
[10:19] *** chris2_ joined
[10:20] <Coleoid> Is anyone in channel able to help with a make failure on Win32?

[10:20] *** chris2_ is now known as chris2

[10:20] <Coleoid> NMAKE : fatal error U1073: don't know how to make 'Spec/_svn/tmp/Functions.pod.tmp'

[10:30] *** Odin- joined
[10:36] *** ruoso joined
[10:41] <Coleoid> With a bit of hacking on Makefile.PL and Makefile, I got it to build...

[10:42] <Coleoid> Though I know what I've got is only 20% of the correct answer.

[10:44] <Coleoid> The short story is that on Win32, dot prefixed directories are incorrectly handled by Visual Studio...

[10:44] <Coleoid> So a SVN client option is to have the .svn directories as _svn instead...

[10:45] <Coleoid> And the makefiles have magic to avoid .svn/ wherever, but not _svn.

[10:51] <Coleoid> Anyone with makefile fu, I'd appreciate an approach that might be worth committing.

[10:51] <Coleoid> work &

[10:53] <dduncan> while I've already moved over to the new repo, I notice the old one was missing most of its commits

[10:54] <dduncan> just having 343

[10:59] <dakkar> they're probably still mirroring

[11:02] <dduncan> nothings moving ... the old repo is staying at 343

[11:02] <dakkar> but the new repository has the most recent version?

[11:09] *** fglock joined
[11:10] *** folli300 joined
[11:12] <svnbot6> r14680 | rootmj++ | [PaP6-testing]

[11:12] <svnbot6> r14680 | rootmj++ | * switch URL for pugs repository

[11:14] *** xinming_ joined
[11:16] *** elmex joined
[11:16] <elmex> hmm

[11:17] <elmex> why was i sent a pugs commitbit?

[11:18] <dakkar> elmex: you probably had a commit bit in the old openfoundry repository

[11:18] <elmex> ok

[11:18] <elmex> that was it

[11:18] <dakkar> the repository has been moved

[11:19] <dakkar> it caught some of us by surprise ;-)

[11:24] *** folli300 is now known as follil

[11:50] *** andara joined
[11:57] *** frederico joined
[12:02] <fglock> no commits today - I'm stuck upgrading OS X - I found some links about it but it didn't help - http://forum.insanelymac.com/index.php?showtopic=17584

[12:02] <lambdabot> fglock: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[12:02] <lambdabot> Title: Perpetual OS X Installation - InsanelyMac Forum, http://tinyurl.com/y83wpb

[12:04] <fglock> ashleyb: thanks!

[12:07] <audreyt> greetings lambdacamels

[12:07] <lambdabot> audreyt: You have 2 new messages. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read them.

[12:07] <audreyt> @massages

[12:07] <lambdabot> cmarcelo said 8h 58m 23s ago: in src/MO/Compile/Class.hs all_class_methods isn't getting the attribute accessors, I suppose this is intended but is /= from the conclusion I got talking to you

[12:07] <lambdabot> yesterday (or before). just checking. (6.4.2 compatibility on the way...)

[12:07] <lambdabot> cmarcelo said 7h 43m 33s ago: check this paste when you can: http://sial.org/pbot/20966

[12:08] <audreyt> fglock: oy, your macbook locked?

[12:09] <audreyt> fglock: put DVD#1 into the cdrom; shut down the computer; press C and don't relesae that key; press power button

[12:09] <audreyt> fglock: then wait a while when it boots into DVD; from there you have a Terminal

[12:10] <audreyt> and you can hunt down the cause by either doing an upgrade install or removing the offending files

[12:10] <audreyt> it also helps to first boot with the apple key and V (Cmd+V) pressed so you can see at which step it's hanging

[12:12] *** Psyche^ joined
[12:12] <audreyt> Coleoid: can you paste the patch to http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 ?

[12:14] *** eggzeck joined
[12:16] <fglock> audreyt: will do - thanks!

[12:18] *** jferrero joined
[12:19] *** boo__ joined
[12:20] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[12:21] *** rodi joined
[12:21] *** boo_ joined
[12:22] *** boo_ left
[12:22] *** boo_ joined
[12:26] <nothingmuch> mooooosen

[12:27] <audreyt> nothingmuch: hi moose!

[12:27] <nothingmuch> hola

[12:28] <audreyt> nothingmuch: how's life?

[12:28] <nothingmuch> sleep is screwey, skin is unhappy

[12:28] <nothingmuch> but asiide from thatall good

[12:29] <clkao> moose

[12:29] <clkao> audreyt: new repository so far so good?

[12:32] <nothingmuch> how's life on the other side of the planet?

[12:32] <audreyt> clkao: so far so good

[12:33] <audreyt> openfoundry got stuck autosyncing

[12:33] <audreyt> so I guess we'll have to push to it manually

[12:33] <svnbot6> r14681 | audreyt++ | * Remove the irrelevant parts of early sketches from src/PIL/.

[12:33] <audreyt> I think svnsync is the way to go

[12:33] <audreyt> I think.

[12:34] <clkao> right, it could sync to ancient server

[12:36] <fglock> audreyt: I guess I'll reinstall from scratch, after saving yesterday work on MP6

[12:36] <audreyt> fglock: oy :/ so sorry to hear that

[12:37] <audreyt> I think you want /opt and /usr/local backed up

[12:37] <audreyt> that will save a lot of downloading time

[12:37] <audreyt> as well as /Applications and your /Users/fglock

[12:38] <audreyt> try boot to dvd and rsync them into your other computer

[12:38] <fglock> yes, I'll do that

[12:38] <audreyt> sorry for messing up your /usr/lib -- I think that's the root cause

[12:38] <fglock> np :)

[12:42] *** kanru joined
[12:46] *** bonesss joined
[12:46] <nothingmuch> audreyt: oh btw

[12:46] <nothingmuch> in Invocation::Method, the caller thing was a hack

[12:46] <nothingmuch> a really really relaly ugly hack =)

[12:47] <nothingmuch> i'm refactoring that so that the responder interface gets, alongside the invocation, extra params

[12:47] <nothingmuch> and the ones that require caller simply depend on getting the "stack" parameter

[12:47] <nothingmuch> which is an object that can be queried for stack frames

[12:48] <nothingmuch> i don't believe there  are anymore yucky yucky hacks except the AG stuff, which you haven't ported anyway

[12:49] *** alexe joined
[12:49] <nothingmuch> workout &

[12:50] *** Juerd_ joined
[12:50] <audreyt> nothingmuch: ok cool, looking forward to refactoring

[12:50] <audreyt> nothingmuch: I think in Haskell we'll put the stack into a monad anyway

[12:50] <audreyt> so it's not carrying it thru invocation

[12:51] <audreyt> and also instead of an Arguments abtraction we'll just use concrete Capture callconv

[12:51] <audreyt> while providing ways to cast other callconvs into Perl6 Captures

[12:51] <audreyt> it's assuming of course that it can subsume all other callconvs.

[12:51] <audreyt> (but I think it can.)

[12:53] *** dduncan left
[12:57] <nothingmuch> yes, arguments is a list in p5 but a capture in p6

[12:58] <nothingmuch> invocations that don't get subsumed by captures are simply going to use something else ^_^

[12:58] <audreyt> :D

[12:59] <audreyt> in any case the returning continuation will be put into the monad

[12:59] <audreyt> so you can query the Signature of the retcont

[12:59] <audreyt> otherwise known as the context

[12:59] <audreyt> it amounts to the same thing as passing everything with the invocation

[13:00] <audreyt> which is the same as your stackobj.

[13:02] <audreyt> clkao: openfoundry has no revpropchg hook

[13:03] <audreyt> clkao: so, what do we do. can pushmi help?

[13:03] <clkao> right

[13:03] <clkao> not immediately. pushmi has to be installed in slave site

[13:03] <audreyt> i.e. pretend we are slave to openfoundry

[13:03] <audreyt> and relay commits to there

[13:03] <audreyt> but script a replay

[13:04] <audreyt> of prev commits

[13:04] <clkao> won't work when openfoundry is down then

[13:04] <audreyt> not realtime

[13:04] <audreyt> i.e. async not sync

[13:04] <clkao> well, then it's the same as svnsync.

[13:04] <audreyt> but it wouldn't require revprop?

[13:04] <clkao> you need prop changes to make the author stuff happy

[13:04] <audreyt> chghook, that is

[13:04] <audreyt> what if I don't care about that?

[13:05] <clkao> one way export? mnmmm

[13:06] <audreyt> I can already do that with handwriten svkmerge

[13:06] <clkao> ya

[13:06] <audreyt> but it's not as reliable as a dedicated replay

[13:06] <clkao> but you still want repository mostly as replicate right?

[13:06] <clkao> so you can do sw

[13:06] <audreyt> well no

[13:06] <audreyt> not in the case of openfoundry

[13:06] <clkao> then just sm -I all the time

[13:07] <audreyt> or svm ;))

[13:07] *** Limbic_Region joined
[13:07] <clkao> but this is going to be a bit tricky for svk

[13:07] <clkao> because the two repositories have the same uuid

[13:07] <clkao> why don't you commit a revision in openfoundry to delete everything except a README saying this repository has moved

[13:07] <audreyt> no we changed the uuid

[13:08] <clkao> on openfoundry? or the dump i had?

[13:08] <audreyt> on openfoundry

[13:08] <clkao> good

[13:08] <clkao> so sm -I would work

[13:10] <nothingmuch> audreyt: yes, the stack obj is for p5 land

[13:12] <audreyt> nothingmuch: if you carefully erase all calls using &goto

[13:12] <audreyt> then you can make caller() be your stack obj in p5 land :)

[13:12] <audreyt> may be insane, though. nvm

[13:13] <nothingmuch> yes

[13:13] <nothingmuch> that is the plan for the p5 "emitter"

[13:13] <audreyt> oh, so you anticipated the insanity

[13:13] <nothingmuch> that all hooks are wrapped in a secret gotoing frame

[13:13] <audreyt> good good.

[13:13] <audreyt> yup.

[13:13] <nothingmuch> for e.g.private methods

[13:13] <audreyt> btw, p5 does not distinguish clsmeth with instancemeth

[13:13] <nothingmuch> clkao's local-stack fudge may be very veyr useful for this toio

[13:13] <audreyt> neither does p6

[13:14] <nothingmuch> i know

[13:14] <audreyt> how do you forsee we make use of separate slots?

[13:14] <nothingmuch> wait

[13:14] <nothingmuch> p6 doesn't?

[13:14] <audreyt> no it does not

[13:14] <nothingmuch> in p5 the plan was to just mush them together on the responder interface level

[13:14] <nothingmuch> yuck =(

[13:14] <audreyt> why yuck?

[13:14] <nothingmuch> with a hook-frame that does if ref blah

[13:14] <audreyt> ::Point.x will simply respond with an error of uninitialized x in the slot

[13:15] <audreyt> i.e. the layout created for ::Point is nil

[13:15] <nothingmuch> because object methods want instance data, they don't make sense as class methods

[13:15] <audreyt> while ::Point.new will have a proper layout

[13:15] <clkao> audreyt: did you see my selfless hack

[13:15] <nothingmuch> and class methods as instance methods are not completely bork, but also quite silly

[13:15] <audreyt> but you never know; maybe they don't want instance data

[13:15] <audreyt> maybe derived class use methods to emulate instance data

[13:15] <nothingmuch> then they should be a module, not a class ;-)

[13:15] *** Debolaz2 is now known as Debolaz

[13:15] <audreyt> clkao: url?

[13:15] <clkao> audreyt: p5p

[13:16] <nothingmuch> i don't mean to say it's useless

[13:16] <audreyt> it's just very p5ish :)

[13:16] <nothingmuch> it's just not as useful as a separate namespace

[13:16] <nothingmuch> but whatever

[13:16] <audreyt> yeah. I initially find it surprising as well

[13:16] <audreyt> but then ify ou think about prototype OO systems

[13:16] <audreyt> then it makes perfect sense to have an unified method table

[13:16] <clkao> audreyt: http://groups.google.com/group/perl.perl5.porters/browse_thread/thread/b149efcaa4fd449/eb02c94cfb580d09?lnk=st&q=selfless+perl&rnum=2&hl=en#eb02c94cfb580d09

[13:17] <lambdabot> Title: Google Groups: perl.perl5.porters, http://tinyurl.com/tfupd

[13:17] <nothingmuch> that's cruft from prototype systems, IMHO ;-)

[13:17] <nothingmuch> prototype systems make sense that way when the prototype is indeed a prototype

[13:17] <nothingmuch> but the mother of all prototypes is just nil

[13:22] <audreyt> clkao: nice :)

[13:23] <audreyt> nothingmuch: I don't disagree -- but S12 has a consistent design and I'd like to go with it for a while and see how it breaks :)

[13:24] <audreyt> @tell cmarcelo indeed; we should probably just remove the class_methods etc from the typeclass Class.

[13:24] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[13:24] *** kanru_ joined
[13:25] <audreyt> clkao: deploy that on jifty any time soon? :)

[13:25] <audreyt> clkao: also, I think Spiffy has the right idea

[13:25] <audreyt> any subs that has a prototype is exempted from selflessing

[13:25] *** GnuVince joined
[13:25] <audreyt> becuase in p5 prototypes doesn't work on methods

[13:25] <audreyt> so it's a clear sign that it's Not A Method.

[13:26] <audreyt> makes sense to you?

[13:26] <clkao> audreyt: i know.  those are the trivial bits. right now my version segfaults for unknown reasons

[13:26] <audreyt> you just need to install more segments!

[13:26] <clkao> or more faults

[13:30] *** GabrielVieira joined
[13:36] *** nusgnaf joined
[13:36] <audreyt> it appears I broke svn.openfoundry.org/pugs entirely...

[13:36] <audreyt> requesting technical assistence from openfoundry team :/

[13:37] *** kisu joined
[13:44] <clkao> how long is it gonna take?

[13:46] *** rodi joined
[13:51] <audreyt> I don't know. worst case I can rm pugs and start anew there

[14:00] *** nusgnaf left
[14:00] *** cmarcelo joined
[14:05] *** alexe left
[14:06] *** justatheory joined
[14:14] <fglock> not sure if I got it right - is chromatic volunteering to implement a Parrot backend?

[14:14] <fglock> that would be nice

[14:14] <fglock> for MP6 :)

[14:15] <audreyt> fglock: yes. get in touch with him and point out what he needs to do :)

[14:17] * smash_ good afternoon

[14:17] <audreyt> smash_: heya :)

[14:18] <Limbic_Region> so out of curiosity, should MO landing in the repo result in more tests being enabled and passed?

[14:18] <lambdabot> Limbic_Region: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[14:18] <Limbic_Region> @messages

[14:18] * audreyt gives up fighting with svn.openfoundry.org...

[14:18] <lambdabot> geoffb said 7h 57m 33s ago: Yep, I knew that ... still, is there ever a bad reason to say "thank you"? :-)

[14:18] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: yes, once it's hooked up with our calling convention, t/oo/ should all pass

[14:18] <Limbic_Region> woooot

[14:18] <smash_> audreyt: hiya

[14:18] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: I plan to do that over the next week :)

[14:18] <audreyt> but again no promises -- though the hard part is done over the last 2 months

[14:18] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - when are you traveling?

[14:18] <audreyt> the glue is much easier.

[14:19] <audreyt> I'm in Rio

[14:19] <audreyt> leave brazil in 4 days

[14:19] <smash_> implement a Parrot backend? for MP6.. hmm

[14:19] <audreyt> so need to finish the glue sketch in 4 days

[14:19] <audreyt> otherwise from past experience I'll be disabled by 7 days following flying back to .tw

[14:19] <audreyt> otoh, it may not be so bad, as $job is not demanding anymore

[14:19] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - on the off chance you get some free time, please post pics somewhere (outdoor pics)

[14:20] <audreyt> and I have another month ahead before flying to france.

[14:20] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: heh. you don't like the two I posted? :)

[14:20] * Limbic_Region has been wanting to visit SA for some time now

[14:20] <audreyt> ah. brazil pictures

[14:20] <audreyt> I don't have a camera.

[14:20] <Limbic_Region> :-(

[14:20] <audreyt> and macbook taking pictures outdoors is... fragile

[14:20] <Limbic_Region> steel er um, borrow someone elses

[14:20] <audreyt> there is plenty of Rio pictures on youtube and flickr...

[14:20] <audreyt> not to mention National Geography :)

[14:20] <Limbic_Region> not quite the same as virtually knowing someone who was there

[14:20] <clkao> audreyt: france?

[14:21] <audreyt> clkao: Nice France. work with rgs on unified runtime.

[14:21] <clkao> oh right.

[14:21] *** vel joined
[14:21] <clkao> why is rgs in Nice

[14:21] <audreyt> apparently it's his parent's place and he grew up there.

[14:21] <audreyt> so coming there for weekend hackathon = no problem

[14:21] <clkao> whoot. what date?

[14:22] <rgs> right

[14:22] <audreyt> Jan 20th

[14:22] <audreyt> 19~21 actually for me

[14:22] <audreyt> not sure what for rgs

[14:22] <rgs> not sure yet

[14:22] <clkao> going anywhere else in europe?

[14:22] <clkao> i will be in taiwan that time

[14:22] <audreyt> no :)

[14:22] <clkao> sugoi

[14:22] <audreyt> oh cool.

[14:22] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - perlmonk's homenode pic is nice, where is the other one?

[14:23] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: the other one is http://pugs.blogs.com/photos/audrey/20061021.html from schwern's place

[14:23] <lambdabot> Title: Audrey: 20061021, http://tinyurl.com/yzcpk4

[14:23] *** bpphillips joined
[14:23] <rgs> audreyt: probably 20-21st

[14:23] <audreyt> the homenode one is in amazon.com

[14:24] <audreyt> rgs: ok, checked

[14:24] <rgs> or maybe 14-15. I'll know that in a few days

[14:24] <audreyt> ok

[14:24] <audreyt> I'll not announce on pugs.blogs.com before you confirm :)

[14:24] <rgs> since I'm trying to get another job, it's a bit difficult to make plans.

[14:25] <clkao> audreyt: you should get rtw ticket

[14:25] <clkao> audreyt: consult bergman travel inc.

[14:26] <Limbic_Region> very nice

[14:26] <rgs> audreyt: that said, if you have a specific list of topic, or only ideas, you're welcome to sent them in my general direction

[14:26] <audreyt> rgs: ok, will do

[14:26] <audreyt> clkao: rtw?

[14:26] <clkao> round the world

[14:28] <fglock> audreyt: unified runtime = P5+P6 ?

[14:28] <nnunley> Careful. Bergman travel inc. requires first class legs all the way around.

[14:29] <audreyt> fglock: yes

[14:29] <audreyt> and perl4

[14:29] <nnunley> And may choose longest path travel.

[14:29] <audreyt> you'll note perl4 runs on that runtime as well

[14:29] <clkao> more hackathon venues then ;)

[14:29] <audreyt> lunch, bbl

[14:31] *** weinig is now known as weinig|bbl

[14:36] *** idiotmax joined
[14:42] *** rhizo joined
[14:48] *** duend`sleeping is now known as duend

[14:56] *** iblechbot joined
[14:56] *** rlb3 joined
[14:57] *** HiTech69 joined
[15:00] *** shigeta joined
[15:16] *** [particle] joined
[15:16] *** nusgnaf joined
[15:16] *** hexmode joined
[15:20] *** cjeris joined
[15:43] <Limbic_Region> buu when you are about ping me - I think I figured out how to get ssh from work without changing the port ssh is listening on - requires an apache hack and a special ssh client http://dag.wieers.com/howto/ssh-http-tunneling/ and http://proxytunnel.sourceforge.net/

[15:43] <lambdabot> Title: DAG: Tunneling SSH over HTTP(S), http://tinyurl.com/z5emd

[15:43] <Limbic_Region> oops

[15:44] <Limbic_Region> nevermind the man behind the curtain

[15:56] *** bpphillips joined
[16:01] *** ofer1 joined
[16:21] *** nusgnaf left
[16:24] *** hugues23 joined
[16:36] *** seano joined
[16:38] <seano> hey -- anyone know the proper process-coding-system to feed pugs non-ascii characters inside emacs?

[16:43] <audreyt> seano: utf8?

[16:43] <audreyt> @tell cmarcelo let's just forget GHC 6.4 ever existed :)

[16:43] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[16:43] <audreyt> bbiab... &

[16:44] <avar> be back in a blip?

[16:45] <fglock> how to fix "Cannot relocate uninitialized path /mirror/pugs at .../SVN/Mirror.pm" ?

[16:46] <fglock> after "svk mirror --relocate //mirror/pugs http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs"

[16:46] <lambdabot> Title: Revision 14681: /

[16:47] <seano> audreyt: hmph.  Tried that (for both input and output coding, then for terminal coding system), but it still seems to misbehave.  I'll poke around a bit more.

[16:53] *** buetow joined
[16:54] <lumi> fglock: svk mirror --list

[16:55] <ofer1> what's svk ?

[16:55] <ofer1> Subveriok ?

[16:55] <ofer1> Subversiok ?

[16:55] <dakkar> ofer1: it's a sort of super-powered front-end to Subversion

[16:56] <dakkar> written in Perl by clkao

[16:56] <ofer1> dakkar, cool, where can I get it from ?

[16:56] <awwaiid> cpan :)

[16:56] <lumi> Subversion on Steroids

[16:57] <[particle]> http://svk.bestpractical.com/view/HomePage

[16:57] <lambdabot> Title: HomePage - SVK Wiki

[16:57] <ofer1> thanks!

[16:59] <clkao> dakkar: :)

[16:59] <fglock> lumi: --list gives me "/pugs/trunk  https://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs" - should I use "svk mirror --relocate //pugs/trunk ... " instead?

[16:59] <dakkar> fglock: most probably

[17:01] <clkao> fglock: yes, read audrey's blog entry

[17:03] <fglock> clkao: I get a "cannot relocate uninitialized path" error

[17:04] <clkao> what command did you use ?

[17:05] <clkao> hmmm i see it.

[17:05] <clkao> oh, //pugs/trunk instead

[17:06] <fglock> same problem with //pugs/trunk

[17:10] <clkao> does svk log -l1 //pugs/trunk shows you a "orig r..." ?

[17:12] <fglock> I get "Filesystem has no item: File not found: revision 0, path '/pugs/trunk' " - I think I lost some files while restoring my backup

[17:13] <fglock> I guess I'll do a new checkout

[17:18] *** cmarcelo joined
[17:19] <monkey___> what's going on with the pugs webserver?

[17:19] <monkey___> monkey@cowu:~$ telnet www.pugscode.org 80

[17:19] <monkey___> Trying 213.84.134.174...

[17:19] <monkey___> telnet: Unable to connect to remote host: Connection refused

[17:19] <monkey___> :(

[17:20] <cmarcelo> @moosages

[17:20] <lambdabot> audreyt said 3h 56m 19s ago: indeed; we should probably just remove the class_methods etc from the typeclass Class.

[17:20] <lambdabot> audreyt said 36m 34s ago: let's just forget GHC 6.4 ever existed :)

[17:21] <[particle]> are there any writeups on using MP6 yet?

[17:23] <cmarcelo> @tell audreyt re 6.4: hehe I was expecting that :).. it's a matter of reverting except for the 'NoResponse vs NoResponse m'-thing.. (did you saw it?)

[17:23] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[17:27] <fglock> [particle]: MP6 is written in MP6

[17:27] <fglock> there is a small text file in docs/notes/mini...

[17:28] <fglock> and AST.pm and BOOTSTRAPPING in v6/v6-MiniPerl6

[17:28] <[particle]> ok, great.

[17:28] *** DHGE joined
[17:28] <[particle]> new PAST will probably be committed today

[17:29] <fglock> [particle]: MiniPerl6 is "PIL-3", kind of

[17:29] <[particle]> so it'll be time to start doing transformations soon

[17:29] *** justatheory joined
[17:29] <nothingmuch> mooo!

[17:30] <fglock> [particle]: transformations?

[17:30] <[particle]> so, there's no diff between assignment and binding... is everything binding, or assignment?

[17:30] <fglock> binding

[17:30] <[particle]> fglock: tree transformations parse -> past -> backend stuff

[17:30] <[particle]> great

[17:31] <[particle]> and named args exist, but don't map to positional params automatically?

[17:32] <TimToady> no named, just { foo => '123' } [note curlies]

[17:32] <TimToady> no variadic args, even

[17:32] <[particle]> ok, that's great

[17:33] <[particle]> actually, it'll mean a lot of parrot's calling convention magic can be avoided

[17:33] <[particle]> of course, that's assuming a p6 built on mp6

[17:33] <fglock> yes, and the same for P5 and Haskell - so we can get a fast implementation

[17:34] <clkao> GnuVince: you pinged me the other day?

[17:34] <[particle]> sure, but probably slower runtime performance

[17:34] <[particle]> ...which is fine for now.

[17:34] <dmq> cool. i just got cutgroup working in perl5.

[17:35] <[particle]> yay

[17:35] <fglock> [particle]: P6-full will not be implemented in MP6

[17:35] <TimToady> It's just (?()true|false), really.

[17:35] <TimToady> if by cutgroup you mean P6's ::

[17:35] <[particle]> fglock: that's what i figured.

[17:36] <fglock> rather, MP6 is a subset, so that we can share some code using it

[17:36] <dmq> cutgroup is what i understand :: to be. 'on failure try next alternation'

[17:37] *** mosca___ joined
[17:37] <dmq> but i dont really get what you mean by "It's just (?()true|false), really."

[17:37] <TimToady> it really comes out to the closest thing regex has to if/then/else

[17:37] <[particle]> dmq: did you and pm solve the impedence mismatch between (*CUT) and <cut> yet?

[17:37] <[particle]> ...and <commit>...

[17:38] <dmq> yes, sortof. im going to rename my CUT to be 'SKIP', and not implement a 'CUT' (since it doesnt fit into the p5 framework from what i can tell).

[17:38] <TimToady> but :: generalizes what can go into the condition over (?()|)

[17:39] <dmq> (*COMMIT) in p5 is afaict the same as <commit> in p6.

[17:39] <[particle]> dmq: great, the new name seems more appropriate, and helps distinguish

[17:39] <TimToady> fglock: I would not be *suprised* if someone implements a P6 interpreter in MP6 eventually, just so they can run P6 on their nanobots

[17:39] <dmq> TimToday: im probably being dense, but i dont see the connection between conditional patterns and ::

[17:40] *** bernhard joined
[17:40] <TimToady> [ condition :: true | false ]

[17:40] <[particle]> i figured there would be a p6-on-mp6 impl, too

[17:40] <dmq> oh.

[17:40] <dmq> oh right.

[17:40] <dmq> heh.

[17:40] <TimToady> but it stacks up a lot nicer than nested (?()|(?()|))

[17:41] <TimToady> [ cond1 :: true1 | cond2 :: true2 | cond3 :: true3 | otherwise ]

[17:41] <dmq> hrm, they are implemented totally differently tho. :-)

[17:42] <fglock> TimToady: yes, that would be nice :)

[17:42] *** mwh joined
[17:43] <dmq> and they dont require the inside of the (?(...) to be a lookahead. which is cool.

[17:43] <dmq> nice way to think about it.

[17:43] <TimToady> *curtsies*, er, *bows*

[17:43] <fglock> [particle]: mp6-on-mp6 is almost ready - I'll get back to it when I finish recovering from the system reinstall

[17:44] <[particle]> what's the best way to see mp6 in action?

[17:44] <dmq> one minor issue with them is that they impose a speed/space issue as BRANCH_next and TRIE_next have to be treated as "yes-states". But thats not such a bad thing and the pernalty is per regex only.

[17:44] <fglock> then it can be extended by programming in mp6

[17:44] <fglock> [particle] install v6, then goto v6/v6-MiniPerl6

[17:45] <dmq> so i think this means that the only perl6 regex construct that you flat out cannot represent in perl5 is the p6 <cut>

[17:45] <GnuVince> clkao: Yes, I saw that you were the original author of Benchmark.pm in pugs and I wanted to know if you wouldn't mind if I added some features (and fixed the TODO)

[17:46] <fglock> the t/* files work with some errors - I'll commit some fixes asap (as soon as I finish recovering svk)

[17:46] <[particle]> ok, great.

[17:46] <[particle]> i'm relocating my pugs repo atm, then i'll sync/install/play

[17:47] <[particle]> i think elephant would be a good name for p6-on-mp6

[17:47] <[particle]> it's strong, slow, and is self-aware :)

[17:47] <dmq> TimToady: im assuming that since you havent made any negative comments that you dont have too much of an issue with what im doing... I hope im right.

[17:47] <fglock> clkao: how do you bypass "svk up -s" to take only the latest revisions?

[17:49] <clkao> svk sync --skipto HEAD //path/mirror; svk up

[17:49] <PerlJam> dmq: you mean that you can not now do perl6's <cut> in perl5 or that it's impossible to do?

[17:49] <fglock> [particle]: mp6 = lrep + PILN; p6 = pugs + v6 + something else

[17:50] <dmq> i dont see how its possible to do.

[17:50] *** mosca___ is now known as mosca

[17:50] <clkao> GnuVince: please do!

[17:50] <dmq> the soon to be called (*SKIP) IMO gives you something close enough. i think.

[17:51] <TimToady> well, it's easy enough to pull the beginning of the string up to the current location.  question is whether regex represents all positions as pointers or some of them as offsets from front of string.

[17:51] <TimToady> which would be thown off if the front of the string moved.

[17:52] <TimToady> dmq: my main qualm is that so far it seems like what you're putting in is rather difficult to explain, and if it's difficult to explain, it probably means we're missing some important generalization.

[17:53] <dmq> or im a sucky explainer.

[17:53] <dmq> :-)

[17:53] <dmq> which almost certainly correct, regardless as to what it says about the generalization.

[17:54] <PerlJam> It's too bad there's no way to insert markers in the RE that say "tag this location in the string with this little bit of information" and then be able to get that stuff out again in some structure.

[17:54] <fglock> [particle]: see also  http://pugs.blogs.com/photos/visiolization/mp6bootstrap.png

[17:54] <lambdabot> http://tinyurl.com/yzjxzo

[17:54] <dmq> actually, thats almost what does happen PerlJam.

[17:54] <TimToady> it's like you want something that generalizes "last" into "last MyLoop".

[17:54] <PerlJam> ah, then how do you access the structure?

[17:55] <PerlJam> because I was thinking that once the locations are tagged, you just use a substr() to do the <cut>

[17:55] <PerlJam> (among other things)

[17:55] <dmq> like for instance you can say: /A+(*MARK:FOO)B+(*CUT:FOO)/

[17:55] <TimToady> substr can certainly be used to pull up the front of the string.  the question is whether the regex engine will coredump after you do that.

[17:56] <PerlJam> TimToady: not if you switch out the string it's operating on  :-)

[17:56] <TimToady> then it's not <cut>...

[17:56] <dmq> I more meant that it doesnt really fit into the expected behaviour of a perl5 pattern.

[17:56] <PerlJam> TimToady: no, no, you copy, cut and forget about the original

[17:57] <TimToady> and all the little pointers currently running around the regex engine can just go hang?

[17:57] <fglock> clkao: I get "REPORT request failed on '/pugs/!svn/bc/14681' ... 200 OK

[17:57] <PerlJam> Well, I was thinking that at the copy it would be more like a "reboot" on the RE engine.

[17:57] <dmq> and you can do it with /(?{$Position=$-[0]})..../ afaict.

[17:58] <TimToady> well, really, to fulfill the intent of <cut>, you have to get the regex engine to throw all that info away, or it's rather pointless.

[17:58] <clkao> fglock: you need latest svn::mirror from svn://svn.clkao.org/member/clkao/modules/SVN-Mirror

[17:58] <GnuVince> clkao: cool, thanks :)  I know what I'll be doing tonight.

[17:58] <clkao> i will release soon

[17:58] <TimToady> whole point of <cut> is to be able to do continuous matching on an infinite stream.

[17:59] <dmq> right which IMO is out of perl5's scope. at least insofar as I doubt ill try to implement it.

[17:59] <dmq> Perl6's regex engine has to be better at something eh? ;-)

[18:00] <TimToady> :D

[18:00] <PerlJam> I've never needed <cut> in perl5 so far  ;)

[18:00] <dmq> ill put it on my speculative todo list tho.

[18:00] <TimToady> but how many times have you heard people wish for the ability to run a regex against an input stream?

[18:00] *** GabrielVieira joined
[18:01] <PerlJam> I've never heard anyone wish hard enough.

[18:01] <dmq> many many times.

[18:01] <dmq> mostly because they want to use a regex for $/

[18:01] <TimToady> well, until they cotton to the fact that they've got a figure/ground issue with that.

[18:02] <PerlJam> dmq: these changes you've hacked in, are they going towards 5.10 or what?

[18:02] <TimToady> just as most splits really want to be combs

[18:02] <dmq> yes, pretty much.

[18:02] <PerlJam> excellent

[18:02] <dmq> most of them are in perl5.9.5 already in some form or another.

[18:02] <dmq> im still tweaking.

[18:02] <dmq> :-)

[18:03] <TimToady> anyway, <cut> is just one of those things that's in there to make sure P6 has a completely different set of FAQs than P5.

[18:03] <dmq> like id love a better name for cutgroup than cutgroup.

[18:03] <dmq> :-)

[18:03] <dmq> its kind long to type.

[18:03] <[particle]> if

[18:03] <dmq> oh, and i wanted to ask, my cutgroup doesnt actually care about group.

[18:03] <TimToady> then

[18:04] <dmq> its any branch. so (?:foo(*IF)|...) and (foo(*IF)|...) would behave the same assuming the (*IF) (cutgroup) worked.

[18:04] <dmq> s/worked/applied/

[18:05] <dmq> i hope that matches. it would be pretty tricky to only make it work inside of a capturing parens.

[18:06] <TimToady> when we say group with respect to :: in P6 we also mean inside (...) as well as [...]

[18:06] <dmq> so, Ill call it (*IF) and (*THEN) :-)

[18:06] <TimToady> only there is no *IF

[18:06] <TimToady> :: is then

[18:06] <TimToady> regex already iffifies the left side.

[18:06] <dmq> oh my.

[18:07] <TimToady> the fact that you get to the :: means the conditional passed.

[18:07] <[particle]> tt: you had me at 'then'

[18:08] <TimToady> sorry, to lazy to type what I mean.  :)

[18:08] <TimToady> *too even

[18:09] *** mwh left
[18:12] *** elmex joined
[18:17] <nnunley> I suppose it would be confusing to use prolog's cut operator ;

[18:17] <TimToady> cut WHAT is the question

[18:18] *** andara left
[18:19] *** kisu joined
[18:25] *** vell joined
[18:29] *** rlb3 joined
[18:31] <fglock> what packages should I install to get "make" in OS X?

[18:32] * dmq returns from afk.

[18:32] <clkao> the apple dev package

[18:32] <dmq> TimToady: so I'll use (*THEN)

[18:32] <fglock> is that Xcode? it does not seem to be free

[18:32] <nnunley> It's a free, but large, download from Apple.

[18:33] <nnunley> http://developer.apple.com/tools/xcode/

[18:34] <lambdabot> Title: Tools - Xcode

[18:34] *** rlb3 joined
[18:37] <fglock> I get "you must be a member of the ADC to download this item"

[18:38] <ashleyb> fglock: it's on the os x install cd

[18:38] <ashleyb> but you have to do a "custom" install

[18:38] <awwaiid> and doing the ADC membership is free

[18:39] <fglock> ashleyb: thanks

[18:39] <fglock> 1st-day newbie here

[18:40] <ashleyb> x11 should be on that cd too -- but it to is not a "default" install

[18:40] <ashleyb> *too

[18:41] *** SubStack joined
[18:42] <ashleyb> you can get these packages by using the installer on the CD -- or by just opening the pkg's in the directory on the CD -- I'd suggest using the installer.

[18:43] <fglock> ok - found it

[18:47] <nothingmuch>  lllllllllllllllll

[18:47] <nothingmuch> ah

[18:57] *** frederico joined
[18:58] *** boo_ is now known as boo_away

[19:26] <cj> audreyt: how interested are you in going to boston to work with the mono folks?

[19:27] <fglock> I can commit again!

[19:27] <svnbot6> r14682 | fglock++ | MP6 - compiles MP6 "token" to MP6 "method"; started "method" impl

[19:28] <audreyt> fglock++ # wooot!

[19:28] <lambdabot> audreyt: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[19:28] <audreyt> cj: very interested. but my schedule is full until at least March.

[19:29] <clkao> audreyt: i have a flight ticket to boson in may

[19:29] <audreyt> clkao: oh nice. maybe May then?

[19:29] <clkao> sounds almost like a plan.

[19:30] <fglock> audreyt: if you have time, try MP6 t/04-regex.t

[19:30] <cj> audreyt: okay.  Early, Mid or Late march?

[19:30] <audreyt> clkao: early, mid or late may?

[19:30] <clkao> the flgiht is early may iircf

[19:31] <audreyt> cj: if clkao is also around that can easily 5x productivity

[19:31] <cj> audreyt: okay.  May then?

[19:31] <clkao> but wait

[19:31] <audreyt> would be nice if we also have putter kolibrie etc around

[19:31] <clkao> is the project still going on after 8 weeks from now ?

[19:31] <cj> audreyt: a large group would take more planning

[19:32] <audreyt> clkao: huh?

[19:32] <clkao> it's christmas!

[19:32] <clkao> aren't we all done by christmas?

[19:32] <audreyt> I think this christmas is about perl6-alpha and pugs 6.28.0 and MP6 bootstrap

[19:32] <audreyt> I don't think anyone has promised anything perl6-final on 2006 christmas :)

[19:33] <clkao> ;)

[19:33] <clkao> where's 6 on 5

[19:33] <audreyt> er v6-alpha.

[19:33] <audreyt> sorry, in my brain the unified perl runtime is already firmly taking shape

[19:33] <audreyt> I no longer distinguish perl6-alpha with v6-alpha

[19:33] <audreyt> :)

[19:33] <clkao> what's the unified runtime plan

[19:33] *** boo_away is now known as boo_

[19:34] <audreyt> you know as much as anyone; try to find encodings of all pugs/mp6 primitives as perl5 ops.

[19:34] <audreyt> that's all actually :)

[19:36] <clkao> sounds like nameshub

[19:36] <audreyt> cj: so, may 10ish?

[19:37] <cj> audreyt: I can't commit to it, but I'll aim for it.

[19:37] <cj> I haven't been here long, so folks might not take me seriously yet.  Ask TimToady how it worked last time :)

[19:37] <audreyt> cj: muito obrigada.

[19:38] <cj> no problemo

[19:38] *** [particle] joined
[19:39] *** TSa joined
[19:40] <cj> audreyt: who usually foots the bill?  TPF?

[19:41] <audreyt> cj: no... I havn't been paid by TPF to do Pugs stuff, other than for food in YAPC hackathons

[19:42] <audreyt> cj: see if Novell, or your company, is interested... failing both, I'll see if I can find a sponsor too

[19:43] *** dakkar joined
[19:44] <cj> audreyt: alrighty.  I'll run it by folks who might be able to pay for it.

[19:44] <cj> last time I talked to management about perl6 (in 2004-ish), they were skeptical.

[19:45] <cj> I'll use the unit test page as proof that it's not sucking.

[19:45] <cj> got a url?

[19:45] <audreyt> http://smoke.pugscode.org/

[19:45] <lambdabot> Title: Pugs Smoke Reports

[19:45] <audreyt> http://spec.pugscode.org/

[19:45] <lambdabot> Title: Official Perl 6 Documentation

[19:45] <cj> thanks

[19:47] <cj> will perl6 be able to run perl5 code on the new vm?  In short, will perl6 on mono be backward-compatable with perl5 on perl5?

[19:47] <audreyt> we will port also the bridge

[19:47] * cj expects no

[19:47] <audreyt> as activestate has once done

[19:47] <audreyt> and as already existing actually as another OSS projec

[19:48] * audreyt forgot the name

[19:48] <audreyt> anyway, we'll be able to run mono and p5 side by side.

[19:48] <cj> cool.  probably good enough.

[19:48] <audreyt> it is good enough with GHC+Perl5 for my $job :)

[19:48] <audreyt> so mono should have little problem

[19:49] <cj> okay.  can you give me names of folks you'd like to see included in the trip via email?  [email@hidden.address]
[19:50] <audreyt> well, other people are locals :)

[19:50] <cj> great

[19:50] <audreyt> and clkao already got ticket to boston

[19:50] <audreyt> so essentially just for myself...

[19:50] <cj> good deal.

[19:50] <cj> clkao: does miguel know you're coming?

[19:51] <clkao> i don't know he knows me

[19:51] <svnbot6> r14683 | fglock++ | MP6 - parses "method" signature

[19:51] <cj> was that "I don't know.  He knows me."  or "I don't know whether he knows me" ?

[19:56] <fglock> audreyt: now we just need a "Block" parser - then bootstrap debugging begins...

[19:56] <clkao> sorry, "i don't think he knows me"

[19:57] *** zgh joined
[19:57] <fglock> home &

[19:58] *** fglock left
[20:02] <audreyt> @tell fglock I think the strategy for "block" is force declaration of all vars upfront, as the old C

[20:02] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[20:05] *** bonsai joined
[20:06] <cj> clkao: join #mono on irc.gnome.org and I'll introduce you

[20:09] *** anatolyv joined
[20:16] *** weinig|bbl is now known as weinig

[20:19] <cj> hurm.  99 tests failing on the release on linux?

[20:19] *** rodi joined
[20:20] <cj> maxine, shorten http://m19s28.vlinux.de/iblech/stuff/pugs-smokes/pugs-smoke-6.2.13-r0-linux-normal--1162052549-4243--17954-17954-0-4638-747-0--233942e4bc0a2ead80164a7c3e233299.html

[20:20] <lambdabot> Title: TAP Matrix - Sat Oct 28 16:14:17 2006 GMT, http://tinyurl.com/y2gq6t

[20:20] <cj> oh, wrong channel :)

[20:21] <clkao> audreyt: huh? yapc hackathon food was sponsored by us

[20:22] <audreyt> clkao: yapc::vancouver

[20:22] <clkao> ah

[20:22] <audreyt> also ::israel

[20:26] * smash_ good evening

[20:27] <audreyt> greetings smash

[20:28] <audreyt> cj: it may also help to say that perl6 is effectively defined by that smoke test suite; when the spec is changed ot augmented the test suite reflects that very quickly

[20:29] <cj> audreyt: alrighty.  I've been terse in order to get a feeling whether they're interested in hearing more.

[20:29] *** TimToady joined
[20:32] <audreyt> k

[20:36] *** weinig is now known as weinig|bbl

[20:50] *** duend is now known as duend`school

[20:54] *** amv_ joined
[21:00] *** zgh joined
[21:08] *** nwc10 joined
[21:08] <nwc10> not sure if this is totally helpful, but since when did that ever stop me? :-)

[21:09] *** root__ joined
[21:09] <nwc10> you may already know, but Damain is hunting for a word beginning with B that is semantically something akin to Bold

[21:10] <nwc10> much like I<> "obviously" means Important

[21:10] <gaal> brash?

[21:12] <nwc10> well, more in the "strong" or "important" sense than the Brave sense

[21:13] <gaal> blunt? :)

[21:13] <gaal> latant?

[21:14] <gaal> s/^/b/

[21:14] <kolibrie> audreyt: cj: I'm not exactly local to Boston (Washington, DC), but would love to come up and hack

[21:14] <kolibrie> I have relatives in New Hampshire, so I get up there often enough

[21:16] <PerlJam> nwc10: biscuits!

[21:16] *** root____ joined
[21:17] <nwc10> in the plural? Not that I object to more than one, of course :-)

[21:19] <gaal> brazen...

[21:19] <gaal> boomy

[21:20] <gaal> okay, i made that one up

[21:20] <PerlJam> brash

[21:20] <PerlJam> bare

[21:20] <PerlJam> bra

[21:20] <gaal> barcrawling

[21:20] <PerlJam> binkidoodle

[21:20] <PerlJam> belligerent

[21:20] <PerlJam> But I like biscuits best

[21:21] <[particle]> backwards

[21:21] <gaal> badass

[21:21] <gaal> bumpkin

[21:21] <gaal> bandersnatchy

[21:21] <gaal> bonkworthy

[21:22] <[particle]> better

[21:22] <PerlJam> belle

[21:22] <gaal> best

[21:22] <PerlJam> best!

[21:22] <gaal> beautiful

[21:22] <anatolyv> binding

[21:22] <[particle]> bigot

[21:22] <[particle]> ooh, bilous

[21:22] <gaal> boffin'

[21:22] <anatolyv> bloomin'

[21:22] <PerlJam> bum

[21:23] <[particle]> blue

[21:23] <gaal> buttered bread

[21:23] <anatolyv> butch

[21:23] <nwc10> I'm sure acme would object to "blue"

[21:23] <gaal> bulldozer

[21:23] <[particle]> bond

[21:23] <PerlJam> boast

[21:23] <[particle]> B<james>

[21:23] <anatolyv> bestial

[21:24] <gaal> bulbous

[21:24] <anatolyv> boldified!

[21:24] <gaal> bwahaha

[21:24] <[particle]> brave

[21:24] <gaal> byzantine

[21:24] <nwc10> bodacious

[21:24] <anatolyv> ooh

[21:25] <PerlJam> Is someone recording the good B-words to give to Damian?  ;)

[21:25] <[particle]> bulky

[21:25] <gaal> buxom

[21:25] <[particle]> bullock

[21:25] <anatolyv> barmaidy

[21:25] *** weinig|bbl is now known as weinig

[21:25] <gaal> ballsy

[21:25] <gaal> ballistic

[21:25] <[particle]> business

[21:26] <gaal> beatific

[21:26] <gaal> big

[21:26] *** root_ joined
[21:26] <anatolyv> boingboing

[21:26] <[particle]> bungled

[21:26] <gaal> booty

[21:26] <gaal> bling

[21:26] <gaal> backtrackfree

[21:27] <cjeris> braxty

[21:27] <anatolyv> bastard

[21:27] <PerlJam> busty

[21:27] <[particle]> bare

[21:27] <anatolyv> bylined

[21:27] <gaal> bipartisan

[21:27] <PerlJam> beany

[21:27] <[particle]> bullsh*t

[21:28] <anatolyv> boojum

[21:28] *** DiegoAltheman joined
[21:28] <gaal> x3

[21:28] *** DiegoAltheman left
[21:28] <[particle]> balk

[21:29] <gaal> boding

[21:29] <anatolyv> borked

[21:29] <gaal> b0rk.b0rk.b0rk

[21:29] <gaal> but the chocolate bon the boose

[21:29] <[particle]> baboonish

[21:29] <gaal> bonoboish

[21:30] <anatolyv> bathetic

[21:30] <[particle]> backfromthefuture

[21:30] <gaal> bombastic

[21:30] <[particle]> babyback

[21:30] <[particle]> bebolden

[21:30] <anatolyv> boorish

[21:31] <gaal> besmirched

[21:31] <anatolyv> bedridden

[21:31] <[particle]> bewildered

[21:31] <gaal> bespoke

[21:31] <gaal> bewitched

[21:31] <gaal> bothered

[21:31] <[particle]> beebopalula

[21:31] <anatolyv> bearlike

[21:31] <anatolyv> beerlike, too

[21:32] <[particle]> beerrun

[21:32] <gaal> beelike whilewe're at it

[21:32] <PerlJam> bastion

[21:32] <[particle]> baconian

[21:32] <anatolyv> bust

[21:32] <gaal> beerrun? isn't that the first word of a joyce novel?

[21:33] <[particle]> all you need is a ten and a fiver, a key and a car, and a sober driver!

[21:33] <gaal> barrage

[21:33] <anatolyv> beanified (compiled to jvm)

[21:33] <[particle]> baptized

[21:33] <anatolyv> bostonish

[21:34] <gaal> bostonian (while we're doing novels)

[21:34] <anatolyv> baroque

[21:34] <gaal> like, beep beep beep beep beep

[21:35] <anatolyv> basta

[21:35] <gaal> base # belong etc.

[21:35] <mr_ank> ?!

[21:35] <lambdabot> Maybe you meant: . v

[21:36] <anatolyv> bandaidish

[21:36] <gaal> backlog, damian. if you can't find something here I think you're busted.

[21:37] *** bpphillips left
[21:37] <mr_ank> Why limit yourself to English? There are several other useful languages. Try swahili.

[21:38] <gaal> bas # arabic

[21:38] <PerlJam> boss

[21:38] <gaal> (for "enough")

[21:38] <PerlJam> bueno

[21:38] <mr_ank> I vote for "bueno"

[21:38] <mr_ank> bueno++ # es bueno

[21:39] <gaal> just a day for a bananafish

[21:39] <gaal> bye! &

[21:50] *** penk joined
[21:52] *** DiegoAltheman joined
[21:52] *** DiegoAltheman left
[21:53] *** DiegoAltheman joined
[21:55] <nothingmuch> moosen

[22:06] *** larsen_ joined
[22:07] <dmq> brazen is a synonym of bold.

[22:14] *** larsen__ joined
[22:16] *** rodi left
[22:17] <follil> bluff, bold, sheer -- (very steep; having a prominent and almost vertical front; "a bluff headland"; "where the bold chalk cliffs of England rise"; "a sheer descent of rock")

[22:20] *** avarab joined
[22:25] *** ashelyb_ joined
[22:26] *** penk joined
[22:31] *** avarab_ joined
[22:31] *** gnuvince joined
[22:32] *** badalex joined
[22:41] *** avar joined
[22:52] *** avarab joined
[22:53] *** Limbic_Region joined
[22:57] *** nicodaemos joined
[23:03] *** avarab_ joined
[23:04] *** eggzeck joined
[23:12] *** avar joined
[23:19] *** cjeris left
[23:57] *** mako132_ joined
[23:59] <nothingmuch> audreyt: ping

[23:59] <nothingmuch> oh crap, what was I going to say =/

