[00:04] *** azuroth joined
[00:07] <Juerd> Where's svnbot6?

[00:36] <theorb> I do very much like the idea of a TODO.

[00:37] <theorb> Er, wishlist.

[00:48] *** daja77 joined
[00:55] *** Southen joined
[01:18] *** pdcawley joined
[01:25] *** stevan_ joined
[01:25] <stevan_> putter, theorb: re: wishlist/TODO - I think that will be much easier once we have the new PIL2 runcore in place

[01:25] <stevan_> I have been banging my head against some fine details in PIL^N when I realized tonight (on the way to get Mexican food, which is when all great thoughts happen :)

[01:26] <stevan_> that we dont really need that stuff in PIL^N, instead PIL^N should be a minimal core and the rest can be bootstrapped in Perl 6 itself

[01:27] <stevan_> we can move stuff back to PIL^N for efficencies sake if need be

[01:27] <PJF> Very OT: Is there a recommended way to invite the 'ilogger2' bot to join a channel?  I love the on-line logs of #perl6, but have yet been unsuccessful in contacting the relevant parties to ask for the ilogger2 blessing.

[01:27] <stevan_> but best to not do that prematurely :)

[01:28] <stevan_> PJF: we are already logged

[01:28] <stevan_> http://colabti.de/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2006-01-12

[01:28] <PJF> stevan_: I know.  I'm asking on behalf of #PerlNet.

[01:28] <stevan_> PerlNet?

[01:29] <PJF> stevan_: http://perl.net.au/

[01:29] <PJF> To which we'd love more contributors. ;)

[01:29] <stevan_> PJF: what is ilogger2?

[01:29] <PJF> stevan_: It's the bot that produces the logs at http://colabti.de/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2006-01-12

[01:30] <stevan_> oh,.. sorry, I just re-read your question, I see now 

[01:30] * stevan_ smacks himself in the forhead and makes a "doh" sound

[01:32] *** joepurl_ joined
[01:33] <stevan_> PJF: have you checked on #irclogger

[01:34] <PJF> stevan_: Indeed.  While my request is now in the logs, not much has happened since then.  I was hoping I may have been able to find audrey or alias here, as I know they both hold ilogger knowledge.

[01:34] *** joepurl_ joined
[01:38] *** gantrixx joined
[01:38] *** joepurl joined
[01:39] <tevan> is now known as stevan

[01:42] <meppl> guten morgen

[01:42] <stevan> good morning meppl

[01:49] <gantrixx> it's night time here

[02:03] *** dduncan joined
[02:07] *** cognominal joined
[02:09] *** Amnesiac joined
[02:32] <audreyt> stevan: er, yes, PIL^N is just for minimal bootstrapping and nothing else -- which is why the mergesort-in-PILN is sorta strange

[02:32] <stevan> audreyt: yeah that was primarily for my amusement :P

[02:33] <stevan> audreyt: I think actually thinking that roles should be implemented in Perl 6 too

[02:33] <audreyt> it is indeed quite amusing :D

[02:33] <audreyt> I'm fine with that

[02:34] <stevan> I have some questions awaiting responses on p6l, once they are answered I will be able to fix the containers 

[02:35] <stevan> and I am going to strip those down to the minimum needed

[02:35] <stevan> then we can start merging with Prim.hs

[02:36] <stevan> then we can adopt a build-on-need approach with PIL^N code

[02:36] <audreyt> okie.

[02:37] <stevan> I would rather that be driven by actual needs than me trying to figure out what we might need

[02:37] <audreyt> yes, me too

[02:37] <audreyt> we'd need to pass t/01-sanity

[02:37] <audreyt> and t/oo/

[02:37] <audreyt> those are the actual needs 

[02:37] * stevan reads too many papers/books/etc and then gets too many ideas

[02:37] <stevan> yes

[02:37] <stevan> I will look over those specifically then

[02:38] <audreyt> *nod*

[02:38] <audreyt> <- still in $job mode

[02:38] * stevan is currently fallen in love with CLOS generic-functions 

[02:38] * audreyt praises ozymandns

[02:38] <stevan> <- should be more in $job mode, but isn't

[02:38] <audreyt> :D

[02:38] <rep> <- too

[02:39] <stevan> actually the $project is nearing completion, so its not really that bad

[02:40] <stevan> I try to engineer schedules so that work slows down as I move closer towards the deadline, launches are much less stressful that way

[02:40] <stevan> anyway time to watch a movie

[02:40] * stevan waves &

[02:43] *** justatheory joined
[02:43] * audreyt waves too &

[03:08] *** chihchun joined
[03:21] *** Cryptic_K joined
[03:24] *** vel__ joined
[03:56] *** justatheory joined
[04:09] *** svnbot6 joined
[04:16] *** vel joined
[04:36] *** Khisanth joined
[04:37] *** Khisanth joined
[04:51] *** revdiablo joined
[05:34] *** bb3 joined
[05:54] *** elmex joined
[06:03] *** nothingmuch joined
[07:08] <gaal> I think a TODO for things that *aren't* in the critical path, but are good for newcomers to work on, is also a good idea. Everybody can "claim" a task simply by cheching in a version of the file with their name next to it.

[07:17] *** quuxman joined
[07:21] *** nothingmuch joined
[07:28] *** mjl69 joined
[07:29] *** iblechbot joined
[07:30] *** lisppaste3 joined
[07:37] *** feng123 joined
[07:48] *** marmic joined
[07:52] *** scrottie joined
[08:05] *** luqui joined
[08:08] *** rantanplan_ joined
[08:23] <nunley> is now known as nnunley

[08:26] *** dmo joined
[08:36] *** cognominal joined
[08:36] *** dada joined
[08:44] *** elmex joined
[09:20] *** vel left
[09:23] *** kane_ joined
[09:41] *** nothingmuch joined
[10:05] *** r0nny joined
[10:38] *** Odin-LAP joined
[10:45] *** feng joined
[10:57] *** bsb joined
[10:59] *** Odin-FOO joined
[11:02] *** drbean_ joined
[11:03] *** Odin- joined
[11:05] *** nnunley joined
[11:30] *** xinming joined
[11:32] *** SamB joined
[11:34] *** elmex joined
[11:37] *** nnunley joined
[11:37] *** drbean_ joined
[11:37] *** r0nny joined
[11:37] *** kane_ joined
[11:37] *** scrottie joined
[11:37] *** marmic joined
[11:37] *** lisppaste3 joined
[11:37] *** daja77 joined
[11:37] *** GeJ joined
[11:37] *** kanru joined
[11:37] *** sri_ joined
[11:37] *** knewt joined
[11:37] *** leo joined
[11:37] *** Medvekoma joined
[11:37] *** wolverian joined
[11:37] *** featherpaste joined
[11:37] *** mugwump joined
[11:37] *** audreyt joined
[11:41] *** nnunley_ joined
[12:08] *** brentp joined
[12:31] *** iblechbot joined
[13:03] *** chris2 joined
[13:10] <nunley> is now known as nnunley

[13:19] *** kolibrie joined
[13:20] *** Limbic_Region joined
[13:20] *** G2 joined
[13:35] *** bsb_ joined
[13:36] *** masak joined
[13:47] *** pdcawley_ joined
[13:48] *** kane_ joined
[13:48] *** verve_ joined
[13:49] *** mjl69 joined
[14:03] *** SamB joined
[14:12] *** hcarty joined
[14:22] *** leo_ joined
[14:30] *** hexmode joined
[14:39] <meppl> gugu

[14:54] <azuroth> go go go!

[14:57] *** PJF left
[15:13] <ingy> go gugod!

[15:23] *** vel__ joined
[15:24] *** Limbic_Region joined
[15:30] *** lisppaste3 joined
[15:32] *** hcarty left
[15:35] *** eric256_ joined
[15:35] *** justatheory joined
[15:36] * Limbic_Region notes a putrid odor in the channel and realizes a Bronco fan just joined

[15:36] <Limbic_Region> ;-)

[15:37] *** Eimi joined
[15:41] *** hexmode joined
[15:43] *** BuZzY joined
[15:44] *** Bit-Man joined
[16:22] *** sapper left
[16:28] *** putter joined
[16:29] <BuZzY> how good is postnuke?

[16:29] <rafl> ~2.17

[16:31] <obra> rafl++

[16:34] <daja77> $rafl++ ;)

[16:35] <putter> re critical path, wishlist/TODO: once piln runs sanity tests, a&s have said the next step is to port over Prim.hs.  the easiest thing to port from Prim.hs is... something which is no longer needed from it.

[16:36] <stevan> hey putter 

[16:37] <putter> Many things in Prim could be written in vanilla p6, and were going to be, but ended up not, because Prelude.pm loading/compilation got slow.

[16:37] <putter> hi stevan

[16:39] <putter> So... how about we create src/perl6/PreludeN.pm, and start writing p6 versions of stuff in Prim.hs for which that's an easy task.  We'll eventually need them anyway, and each one we do is one less to port over for piln?  Thoughts?

[16:39] <stevan> putter: yes, I think once we have the new PILN runcore in place speed will improve

[16:39] <stevan> at least i hope so :)

[16:39] <stevan> otherwise all my work is in vain and I might as well give up :P

[16:39] <putter> :)

[16:39] <stevan> putter: ask audreyt, she is the keeper of the master plan 

[16:40] * stevan only has a slight somewhat hand-wavey idea of what it means to "port over Prim.hs"

[16:40] <stevan> I plan on just being the PIL^N/Perl6 monkey for her grand efforts

[16:40] <putter> PreludeN.pm  just being a temporary place to drop the code.  "Things we would have already written for Prelude.pm, but got scared off by its compile time." :)

[16:40] <putter> :)

[16:41] <stevan> putter: feel free to start,.. no one will stop you :)

[16:41] <stevan> my biggest problem was in finding out what actually needed to be defined

[16:42] <putter> :)  have to go out now for a while.  thought I'd float the idea before leaving.

[16:42] <stevan> I decided the other night that I should let the needs be dictated to me, rather than try to anticipate 

[16:42] <stevan> putter++ # always launching entire fleets of good ideas :)

[16:43] <stevan> some more sane than others, but silly things like sanity never concerned us here :)

[16:46] <putter> lol.  re needed to be defined, huh?  to pass the test suite beyond sanity, hmm, ok, no comment, will require the Prim's.  here's one way for us folks who can write p6, to impact near-term critical path now, with no wait.

[16:49] <stevan> putter: I meant that I would build PILN stuff on an 'as-needed' basis

[16:49] <putter> one could also work on the p6 implementation of object space, but that's one step further out.  post "piln backend runs test suite, and becomes primary backend".  Could at least stub everything, some of it commented out to avoid stomping on what's currently defined in .pil files.

[16:49] <stevan> the Perl 6 stuff is different

[16:50] <putter> oh yeah.  I'm talking just p6.  eg...

[16:50] <stevan> putter: I think the Perl 6 ObjectSpace should probably wait until we have all the kinks in the PILN one worked out

[16:50] <stevan> I only say this becuase we are not even sure if this will all work :)

[16:51] <stevan> it's -Ofun after all

[16:51] <stevan> :)

[16:51] * stevan reminds putter that he is making things up as he goes along ;)

[16:52] <putter> ... reading from the top of Prim.hs, bool::true/false could be written as boolean objects, (though I suppose commented out, as I bet piln already has/needs them, so that's a noop), and Y and Â¥ could just be p6 code.

[16:53] <stevan> putter: PIL^N has bit-type, which is autoboxed into a ^Bit 

[16:53] *** eric256_ left
[16:53] <stevan> and it has a true and false constants

[16:53] <stevan> but the idea is to have Perl 6 desugar to PIL2, which is then compiled to PIL^N

[16:54] <stevan> so I am not sure how directly the Prim will get ported

[16:54] <stevan> again,.. audreyt is the chick with the plan

[16:54] <stevan> the Perl 6 "It" girl if you like 

[17:01] * stevan watches the UnCommonWeb "Hello World" movie and dreams of writing LISP for $work

[17:03] <putter> ... a value of pi could be snarfed from nist, the say := &IO::say could be written in p6 (just did:), etc.  Though a counter argument to this whole idea is "keep change minimal until the test suite is passed, and only then fiddle.  Better to do a bulk snarf of Prim, than piecemeal "need this, not this, that, not that", etc".

[17:03] <putter> stevan: ok

[17:04] <putter> but at minimum, it would be a contribution to the post "piln passes tests" next step of "clean up primitives and object space".

[17:04] <putter> <end of idea>

[17:04] <putter> ooh, not quite, could p6-ify S29.

[17:04] <putter> some of it already has been, but parts not.

[17:04] <putter> re "not sure it will all work"...  any particular risks in mind?  it seems straight-forward, if a bit of a grind.  and no, I did not mean to rhyme.

[17:05] * stevan spins a record for putter to keep rapping over :P

[17:05] <stevan> putter: what do you mean by "clean up primatives and object space"?

[17:06] <audreyt> p6ify s29 is definitely a good plan. lifting Prim to repr types is only meant to get the bits that _cannot_ be represented in perl6 alone without underlying support

[17:07] <audreyt> anything can could, should.

[17:07] <stevan> audreyt: yes

[17:07] <audreyt> (and would, so 's all good)

[17:08] <stevan> I was envisioning that we define only the minimum needed in the packages/classes in PIL^N, then we can add to the packages/classes (using the MOP) in Perl 6 to fill the rest out

[17:08] <audreyt> yes.

[17:08] <audreyt> definitely.

[17:08] <stevan> dammit, there you go agreeing with me again

[17:08] <audreyt> we seem to do that a lot.

[17:09] * stevan wonders if his wife will start refering to audreyt as "the other woman" instead of "that perl 6 guy" :P

[17:09] <audreyt> :D

[17:09] <putter> re object space, just what you were doing in piln, but in p6.  creating the assorted classes and roles, wiring them together, stubbing out methods and implementing them where possible, etc.  re "clean up primitives"... what audreyt said :)  move stuff from hs to p6 whereever possible, reexamine names and behavior, put in pkgs where apropriate, etc.

[17:09] <stevan> so p6l has been silent for a few days :/

[17:10] <stevan> putter: ok, thats what I thought, but object-space is still an ambigious term so I just wanted to check :)

[17:10] <audreyt> stevan: I left a ring at asavige's plac and his wift found ite... fortunately there's my wikipedia entry

[17:10] <audreyt> s/plac/place/ s/wift/wife/

[17:10] <stevan> :D

[17:11] <stevan> audreyt: you know I realized the other day, you will probably have much less trouble at US customs now

[17:11] <audreyt> indeed

[17:11] <putter> stevan: note how thoroughly piln can defer to p6... if you need split() in piln, but not split() with negative args, you can just do the pos arg version in piln, and rebind split() to a full p6 version post-bootstrap.

[17:11] <audreyt> that may just solve the problem

[17:11] <stevan> yes

[17:11] <audreyt> putter: yes, and we even have different syntax for that

[17:11] <audreyt> `spilt and .split

[17:11] <audreyt> but even .split can be rebound

[17:12] * stevan praises the power of the MOP

[17:12] <putter> s/split/splice/  sigh

[17:14] * putter has always had mixed feelings about MOPs.  likes the simplicity of ruby's "just stomp on it (eval, whatever)".  (though it also has a mop of course)

[17:14] * theorb wonders what the MOP is.

[17:14] <putter> meta object protocol

[17:14] <theorb> Ah.

[17:14] <stevan> theorb: Meta Object Protocol

[17:14] <theorb> That helps only a little.

[17:14] <stevan> putter: eval should just call the MOP, users only end up using it when they actually want to ,.. 

[17:14] <stevan> theorb: it is the API for .meta

[17:15] <theorb> Ah.  That helps significantly more.

[17:15] <audreyt> putter: ruby has a quite sophisticated MOP thanks to eigens...

[17:15] <audreyt> but then, the user doesn't see it much.

[17:15] <audreyt> (which as it should be. but again, perl6 has this weird idea of multiple coexisting MOPs.)

[17:16] <stevan> putter: ideally everything gets translated into MOP calls by the parser/desugarer

[17:16] <audreyt> so we need to plan for it.

[17:16] <putter> $obj.add_method("fribble",sub(...){...})     its a protocol (add_method(name,sub)), on objects, which modifies... their meta ;)

[17:18] <theorb> So the syntax "a b c".split(/ /) becomes "a b c".meta.call_method("split", rx/ /), or the like...

[17:18] <svnbot6> r8642 | clkao++ | * Make bool::{true,false} work for pil2js backend.

[17:18] <theorb> Makes sense.

[17:18] <svnbot6> r8642 | clkao++ | * Return empty list for not().  It should return undef in scalar

[17:18] <svnbot6> r8642 | clkao++ |   context, but we don't have want() yet.

[17:18] <audreyt> ...except it would be $obj.meta.add_method

[17:18] <audreyt> but yes.

[17:18] <theorb> OK.  Next question: What's the difference between .split and `split?

[17:19] <audreyt> theorb: `split is not valid p6 :D

[17:20] <stevan> but it is valid PIL^N

[17:20] <audreyt> `split is a representation of a syscall to the underlying VM.

[17:20] <audreyt> however it may wish to implement it most efficiently.

[17:20] <clkao> need want() in pil2js

[17:20] <audreyt> clkao: you have a context object in pil2js; inspect it?

[17:20] <clkao> really

[17:21] <clkao> let me find it... i wasn't grepping 'context' because i thought there would insane amount of garabe

[17:21] *** avar joined
[17:21] <theorb> Why would split be a syscall to the VM?

[17:21] <stevan> speed

[17:22] <theorb> Doesn't this kill the ability to write objects that do interesting things on split?

[17:22] <theorb> $cheerleader.split, $pantyhose.split ...?

[17:22] <stevan> nope

[17:22] <stevan> split would be a method of Str

[17:22] <stevan> at least the one we are talking about

[17:22] <stevan> everything is attached to a class at some level

[17:22] <stevan> like Ruby

[17:23] <stevan> but you wont have to deal with that if you dont want to

[17:23] <theorb> If everything is a method of some object, what is the tick notation for?

[17:23] <stevan> theorb: it is only in PIL^N

[17:24] <stevan> it is how we diferentiate between calls to the native types and method calls executed by the MOP

[17:25] <audreyt> theorb: the tick notation is like the... inline XS notation.

[17:25] <theorb> Oh, so p6 $obj.meta.foo is pil^n $obj`foo?

[17:26] <stevan> theorb: nope, $obj.meta.foo is the same in PIL^N

[17:26] <putter> hmm... so all we have to do is define ` _in perl6_, and then we have a meta-circular evaluator... ;)

[17:26] <audreyt> think of $str`split as Perl_do_split(SvPV(sv), ...)

[17:26] <stevan> putter: suuuuuurrrreeee

[17:26] <audreyt> putter: yes, you can define them quite easily ;)

[17:26] <theorb> OK.

[17:27] <audreyt> though the good thing about `split is that it's VM agnostic

[17:27] <stevan> theorb: in general the ` is only of interest to lambda-loving VM hackers

[17:27] <audreyt> if parrot has a fast split, that's emitted to a single opcode

[17:27] <putter> theorb: i think, stevan correct me if I'm wrong, $o`foo is "use foo vm opcode", and $o.foo is "use normal method invocation stuff".

[17:27] <theorb> So the perl6->pil^n compiler^Wconverter will only output $str`split when it's sure that $str is really a string.

[17:27] * stevan praises the all powerful DSL 

[17:27] <audreyt> for VMs that does not, then `split will emit some more stub code.

[17:27] <audreyt> think PPPort.

[17:28] <audreyt> putter: that'd be correct.

[17:28] * stevan praises nothingmuch and his circular prelude idea

[17:28] * audreyt is about to praise sleep

[17:28] <stevan> and all the evilness that it implies :)

[17:29] <theorb> Why does this sound like the backdoor in K's original C compiler?

[17:30] <clkao> audreyt

[17:30] * stevan "silences" theorb since he now knows too much

[17:30] <clkao> audreyt: pil2js doesn't understand the pil for subroutine/currying.t

[17:32] * putter praises sleep highly.  leg pain has made it a much less accessible friend these last few days.  dont value stuff until its gone.  "I will not again cease to appreciate sleep." x 1000.

[17:33] <obra> sleep++

[17:33] <putter> :)

[17:33] <audreyt> clkao: too bad, you'd need to hack the p5 compiler

[17:33] <audreyt> I mean, the pil2js compiler's p5 source code

[17:34] <audreyt> I can take a look this weekend

[17:34] <audreyt> but I need to wake up in <7.5hrs

[17:34] <clkao> k

[17:34] <putter> oops.  gone.  bye &  night a &

[17:34] <obra> audreyt: is tomorrow $Work again?

[17:34] <audreyt> for $yet_another_jifty_deployment (but with lovely lighttpd)

[17:34] <obra> ooh.

[17:34] * obra does need to try lightttpd

[17:34] * obra ponders adding fastcgi support to standalone_httpd

[17:34] <audreyt> obra: yeah, the 3 client sites are all in iterative user-testing stage

[17:35] <obra> audreyt: how do they like it?

[17:35] <audreyt> obra: lighttpd beats standalone_httpd cold in perf

[17:35] <obra> so does a wet paper bag

[17:35] * obra does wonder about a preforking standalone_httpd

[17:35] <audreyt> actually, apache2 with a single user benchs similarily

[17:35] <obra> to which?

[17:35] <audreyt> (I'm talking about no-concurrency cases)

[17:36] <audreyt> benchs similarily to standalone

[17:36] <obra> *blink*

[17:36] <obra> that's so sad.

[17:36] <audreyt> maybe AIX is sad.

[17:36] <audreyt> (which is likely, and well known.)

[17:36] * obra bites his tongue

[17:36] <obra> "Death, Taxes and AIX"

[17:36] <audreyt> rofl

[17:36] * obra wanted a tshirt with the three of those in white circles

[17:37] <obra> to go with the peace, love and penguins

[17:37] <audreyt> obra++

[17:40] * audreyt waves and sleeps &

[17:43] *** G2 joined
[17:54] *** nothingmuch joined
[17:57] *** bsb_ left
[17:58] *** bernhard joined
[18:08] *** penk joined
[18:16] *** penk joined
[18:25] *** sub_chick left
[18:33] *** rantanplan_ joined
[18:48] *** scrottie joined
[18:53] *** khaladan joined
[19:04] *** theorbtwo joined
[19:05] *** theorb joined
[19:06] *** avar joined
[19:19] *** orafu joined
[19:31] *** Bit-Man joined
[20:18] *** lisppaste3 joined
[20:30] *** khaladan joined
[20:41] <wolverian> hm, PIDA (http://pida.berlios.de) looks nice. 

[20:42] *** avar joined
[20:57] *** stevan joined
[21:04] *** dduncan joined
[21:16] <hisant> is now known as Khisanth_

[21:17] <hisanth> is now known as Khisanth

[21:18] <hisant> is now known as Khisanth_

[21:26] *** PJF joined
[21:41] *** marmic joined
[21:54] *** Lartuv joined
[22:27] *** Maddingue joined
[22:47] <hisanth> is now known as Khisanth

[23:09] *** pdcawley_ joined
[23:13] *** bsb joined
[23:14] *** Stoffe joined
[23:17] *** xinming joined
[23:30] *** lisppaste3 joined
[23:33] *** orafu joined
[23:41] *** bsb left
