[00:26] *** bsb joined
[00:29] *** jaapweel joined
[00:34] *** torz joined
[00:40] *** BenjaminZou joined
[00:46] *** bonesss joined
[00:57] *** nipotaway is now known as nipotan

[01:07] *** jisom joined
[01:10] *** obvio171_ joined
[01:14] *** REPLeffect joined
[01:16] *** rintaro joined
[01:17] *** sunnavy joined
[01:20] *** dolmans joined
[01:30] *** justatheory joined
[01:33] *** TimToady joined
[01:53] <BenjaminZou> Hi, who took part in YACC yesterday?

[01:56] *** postgre joined
[02:00] <Conrad> YAPC?

[02:00] <postgre> yes, yet another perl conference

[02:00] * Conrad was in the morning session

[02:00] <BenjaminZou> Yes, YAPC……

[02:03] <dolmans> YAPC::Beijing, me.

[02:04] <dolmans> if you say about it.

[02:05] *** beppu joined
[02:09] <BenjaminZou> That's it.

[02:13] <postgre> where is agentzh? I forgot to ask his ppt for YAPC yesterday

[02:23] * amadeus have just come back from Beijing

[02:24] * amadeus use the wrong id ..

[02:24] *** amadeus is now known as laye

[02:25] <postgre> 06amadeus01, do you know where ahentzh upload his ppt  for YAPC?  

[02:25] <Tene> 4amadeus

[02:25] <postgre> ok will email agentzh

[02:25] <laye> now amadues know as laye

[02:26] <laye> i got his slides on my hiptop

[02:26] *** bsb joined
[02:26] <laye> i think agentzh is still at Beijing now

[02:26] <postgre> can you share it 

[02:27] <postgre> somewhere on internet?

[02:27] <laye> of course

[02:27] <postgre> sure, i only know his email, forgot to ask his tel

[02:29] <laye> i can email the sildes to u

[02:30] <postgre> can you upload to a site like perlchina or www.yapc.org.cn?

[02:31] <laye> sure

[02:31] <postgre> thank you:-)

[02:32] <laye> you are welcome

[02:33] <postgre> or upload it as attachment at bbs.perlchina.org, so  that everyone can view it

[02:37] *** postgre left
[02:38] <laye> postgre: i'll ask agent himself to post it on bbs.perlchina.org, is it okay?

[02:40] <svnbot6> r16676 | Darren_Duncan++ | ext/Muldis-DB/ : updated the Muldis-DB license to be the disjunction of the GPL v3 or later and the Affero GPL v3 or later

[02:40] <dduncan> YAPC is now? ... looking ...

[02:45] <laye> dduncan: YAPC::Beijing

[02:46] <dduncan> I see now ... it seemed that the NA date was really close, but a bit later ... that explains it

[02:47] <dduncan> looking further, there appear to be 3 YAPC in a row ... the Beijing, then NA, then Europe, each a week apart

[02:47] <dduncan> or the last is just a planning meeting

[02:47] <dduncan> no matter

[02:48] <dduncan> (was looking at http://yapc.org )

[02:48] <lambdabot> Title: YAPC

[02:48] <laye> wow

[02:48] <laye> wanna see YAPC::NA :-)

[02:49] <dduncan> I want to as well, but I can't go this year

[02:49] <dduncan> hopefully next year

[02:49] <laye> me 2

[02:50] <laye> not really going this year

[02:50] *** bonesss joined
[02:51] *** justatheory joined
[02:59] *** diakopter_afk is now known as diakopter

[03:04] *** weinigLap joined
[03:07] *** diakopter is now known as diakopter_afk

[03:11] *** evanl_ joined
[03:25] *** laye joined
[03:36] *** daxim joined
[03:39] *** amnesiac joined
[03:52] *** [particle] left
[03:53] *** [particle] joined
[04:05] *** weinigLap joined
[04:09] *** chaoslawful joined
[04:28] *** jisom_ joined
[04:42] *** Mankod joined
[05:04] *** devogon joined
[05:42] *** hirschnase joined
[05:48] *** bamar joined
[05:55] *** dduncan left
[05:59] *** ofer joined
[06:16] *** buubot joined
[06:27] *** Mankod joined
[06:36] *** franck__ joined
[06:38] *** weinigLap joined
[06:42] *** franck__ joined
[06:43] *** buubot joined
[07:17] *** iblechbot joined
[07:34] *** buubot joined
[07:46] *** mico_ joined
[08:35] *** buetow joined
[08:46] *** marmic joined
[08:50] *** riffraff joined
[08:50] <riffraff> hi

[08:52] <Tene> Hi!

[08:55] <mico_>  hi!

[09:01] *** the_dormant joined
[09:02] *** jedai joined
[09:14] *** bren1 joined
[09:17] *** bren1 changes topic to: http://pugscode.org/

[09:18] *** bren1 left
[09:20] *** bren1 joined
[09:22] *** buubot joined
[09:23] *** bren1 left
[09:25] *** buubot joined
[09:25] *** bren1 joined
[09:34] *** isaacd joined
[09:38] *** shiming joined
[09:40] *** spinclad changes topic to: http://pugscode.org/ | http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | ?eval [~] <m oo se> | We do Haskell, too | > reverse (show (scanl (*) 1 [1..] !! 4))

[09:45] *** buetow joined
[09:51] *** shiming left
[10:01] *** the_dormant left
[10:12] *** IllvilJa joined
[10:13] *** franck__ joined
[10:35] <spinclad> ?eval [~] <m ỏỏ se>

[10:35] *** evalbot_r16675 is now known as evalbot_r16676

[10:35] <evalbot_r16676> "mỏỏse"

[10:36] <spinclad> [moose with coathangers]

[10:36] <moritz> mosse!

[10:37] <moritz> does gaal hilight on moose?

[10:37] <moritz> @seen gall

[10:37] <lambdabot> I haven't seen gall.

[10:37] <moritz> @seen gaal

[10:37] <lambdabot> I saw gaal leaving #perl6 and #haskell 9h 44m 11s ago, and .

[10:39] *** laye joined
[10:39] *** toshinori joined
[10:40] *** laye joined
[11:03] *** marmic joined
[11:10] *** chris2 joined
[11:25] *** bumm13 joined
[11:25] *** bumm13 left
[11:41] *** BooK joined
[11:44] *** xinming joined
[11:51] *** franck___ joined
[11:56] *** REPLeffect joined
[12:00] *** nipotan is now known as nipotaway

[12:09] *** crashmatrix joined
[12:09] *** fglock joined
[12:09] *** mico_ joined
[12:10] <fglock> updated http://pugs.blogs.com/pugs/2007/06/kindaperl6_proj.html

[12:10] <lambdabot> Title: Pugs: "KindaPerl6" project roadmap

[12:11] *** rho joined
[12:12] *** mncharity joined
[12:16] *** leo_ left
[12:27] <moritz> fglock: If you want to link to a version of the roadmap that gets updated when you edit the .pod file in the repository, consider linking here instead: http://moritz.faui2k3.org/pugs/v6/docs/kp6-roadmap.pod.html

[12:27] <lambdabot> Title: kp6-roadmap

[12:28] *** isaacd_ joined
[12:28] <moritz> fglock: if you want to link to an immutable version, the old link is just fine

[12:28] <fglock> moritz: I'll update - thanks!

[12:28] <moritz> fglock: or I could redirect from the old to new one if you don't want to change the link but get the new version

[12:29] *** iblechbot joined
[12:29] <fglock> hmm - redirecting is better, because the blog is copied to several other places

[12:29] <moritz> ok, I'll make redirect then

[12:29] <moritz> btw you created 833 hits so far

[12:30] <fglock> nice - I wished people give more feedback

[12:31] <fglock> I need a project review

[12:31] *** |Jedai| joined
[12:32] <moritz> I'm certainly interested, but the project looks somewho scary (and I guess I'm not the only one who thinks so)

[12:32] <moritz> fglock: maybe you could write something very concrete like "look at file $foo.pm: this is the perl emitter. Please write the same file as $bar.pm so that it emmits $lang"

[12:33] <moritz> and a few hints how to do that

[12:33] <moritz> and once people start working on it, the will look at the broader picture

[12:39] <fglock> moritz: my problem is with the "broader picture" itself - I wished more people could review the general idea, before putting more work in the details

[12:40] <moritz> fglock: you should say that in the (or a new) blog post

[12:41] <fglock> you are right - I didn't say that

[12:41] <moritz> and perhaps start a discussion on perlmonks.org

[12:42] <moritz> and if you are crazy, you ask on ask.slashdot.org for comments ;)

[12:44] *** BooK_ joined
[12:54] *** kanru joined
[12:58] <moritz> @tell agentzh I converted your chinese translation of S01 to HTML using Pod::Tree::HTML, and the output is horribly garbeled <http://moritz.faui2k3.org/pugs/docs/zh-cn/syn/S01.pod.html> - do you know any pod2html converter that can handle your pod?

[12:58] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[13:07] *** Loro_ joined
[13:09] *** cmarcelo joined
[13:10] <edenc> cmarcelo: boo

[13:11] <fglock> edenc: ola

[13:11] <edenc> fglock: sup :)

[13:12] <edenc> fglock: I've been looking at the kp6-roadmap

[13:13] <edenc> fglock: using Moose on Milestone 1?

[13:15] <fglock> edenc: you mean "phase I"? no, it's written in MiniPerl6

[13:15] <edenc> fglock: phase III - milestone 1

[13:16] <edenc> hmm

[13:16] <cmarcelo> edenc, fglock: moose!

[13:16] <fglock> that's MiniPerl6, too. It's actually finished

[13:17] <moritz> moose!

[13:17] <edenc> fglock: I read status: 'Not Started'

[13:17] <fglock> I finihed milestones 1 and 2 already

[13:17] <fglock> yes, the roadmap commit was lost

[13:17] <fglock> cmarcelo: moose!

[13:17] <fglock> edenc: I'll update it

[13:18] <cmarcelo> what are you mooses upto recently?

[13:18] *** TJCRI joined
[13:20] <fglock> cmarcelo: planning next kp6 version; and looking for ways to expand the team :)

[13:21] <fglock> cmarcelo: also looking for a code review

[13:21] <svnbot6> r16677 | fglock++ | [kp6] updated roadmap with finished milestones

[13:22] <cmarcelo> fglock: a code review?

[13:22] <fglock> cmarcelo: s/code/architecture/

[13:23] <fglock> http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/v6/docs/kp6.jpg

[13:24] * cmarcelo is hostage of a lab assignment: implementing altivec SIMD instructions in a PowerPC simulator... until semester ends. :-/

[13:25] <fglock> cmarcelo: I wonder the architecture should be reused for 6-in-6, or can it be improved

[13:25] <cmarcelo> fglock: oh, I remember (an old) a version of that diagram.

[13:25] <fglock> yes, we worked on it in YAPC::SA

[13:27] <cmarcelo> did you gather people interest since the blog post?

[13:28] <fglock> cmarcelo: I guess people are waiting to be asked for specific contributions

[13:29] <fglock> I'm working on it

[13:30] <cmarcelo> moritz: re-moose, what you've been doing recently?

[13:31] <fglock> I need the architecture review before making a detailed plan, because it will be harder to change it later

[13:33] <cmarcelo> I see.

[13:34] <cmarcelo> ?seen audreyt

[13:34] <lambdabot> audreyt is in #perl6 and #haskell. I don't know when audreyt last spoke.

[13:34] <cmarcelo> @seen audreyt

[13:34] <lambdabot> audreyt is in #perl6 and #haskell. I don't know when audreyt last spoke.

[13:35] <cmarcelo> :-(

[13:36] <thoughtpolice> morning. :)

[13:37] *** ron_ joined
[13:45] <cmarcelo> oh, morning here too :)

[13:46] *** cnhackTNT joined
[13:50] *** toyam joined
[13:51] <toyam> hi

[13:53] <toyam> fglock: does kindaperl6 run itself?

[13:54] *** b_jonas joined
[13:55] <fglock> toyam: not exactly - there are 3 separate systems: the compiler, the backend, and the language in which the compiler is written

[13:56] <fglock> the backend is what 'runs' - it is the 'virtual machine'

[13:56] <fglock> kp6 uses perl5 as the virtual machine

[13:56] *** rfordinal_athome joined
[13:56] <toyam> but not the compiler?

[13:57] <fglock> the compiler is also compiled to perl5, and runs in perl5

[13:57] <toyam> i would like to have a look at the AST to get a better idea of how it works

[13:57] <toyam> how do i run kp6-dump-ast.pl

[13:57] <fglock> one sec

[14:00] <fglock> toyam: excuse me, I need to fix a library name first

[14:00] <toyam> cool

[14:02] *** gaal joined
[14:03] <fglock> toyam: perl  kp6-perl5.pl --ast < t/kp6/03-scalar.t | perltidy

[14:03] <gaal> moritz: you moosed?

[14:05] <toyam> fglock: thanks

[14:05] <svnbot6> r16678 | fglock++ | [kp6] kp6-dump-ast.pl is deprecated - use kp6-perl5.pl --ast instead 

[14:07] <fglock> toyam: you will notice a ' pad   => ..., ' node, which is a closure; it is not properly dumped yet

[14:07] <toyam> okay, let me rephrase my first question: does kp6 compile itself?

[14:10] <fglock> toyam: not yet - it is still compiled with a previous version, which was called mp6

[14:10] <fglock> this allows kp6 to have unfixed bugs, which is good for development

[14:11] *** cmarcelo joined
[14:11] <fglock> s/unfixed bugs/unimplemented features/

[14:11] <toyam> sounds like a plan

[14:12] <fglock> mp6 is under v6/v6-MiniPerl6/

[14:14] *** diakopter_afk is now known as diakopter

[14:18] <fglock> toyam: there are 2 drawings under v6/docs/, showing the kp6 and mp6 internal architecture; you can start with mp6 which is simpler

[14:19] *** po_boy joined
[14:27] *** buetow joined
[14:59] <toyam> fglock: what is the format of the AST dump?

[14:59] <toyam> PIL2?

[14:59] <toyam> is it documented?

[15:01] <fglock> toyam: it is just an object tree; there is some documentation here: http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/v6/v6-MiniPerl6/miniperl6-ast.pod

[15:02] <toyam> so if I wanted to add the missing Pad bit, where would I start

[15:03] <fglock> kp6 ast has a few more details; this is the current spec (as Haskell code): http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/src/Pugs/AST/CapInternals.hs

[15:03] <fglock> toyam: you can start by copying the pod file to the kp6 directory

[15:05] <fglock> hmm - Lit::Code already has pad

[15:05] <fglock> toyam: it does need corrections

[15:06] <fglock> toyam: do you have a pugs commit bit?

[15:06] <toyam> nope

[15:07] <fglock> please give me a mail address for sending an invitation

[15:08] <toyam> in the docs dir?

[15:08] <fglock> yes

[15:13] <fglock> hmm - I can't login to http://invite.pugscode.org/

[15:13] <lambdabot> Title: Login

[15:14] *** toyam is now known as _toyam

[15:15] *** _toyam is now known as toyam

[15:16] *** weinigLap joined
[15:16] <thoughtpolice> fglock: if you can't get him an invite I think commitbit should be loaded for me

[15:17] <fglock> thoughtpolice: yes, please

[15:17] <fglock> I'll figure my problem later

[15:17] <lumi> Maybe we need a cli for commitbit invites

[15:18] <obra> ...we need feather to not have horrible IO issues :/

[15:18] <lumi> That too

[15:19] <gaal> I'm not managing to login either. /me cancels own request to prevent others' form thrashing...

[15:19] <obra> I think it just let me log in

[15:19] <obra> do we have an email for toyam?

[15:20] <gaal> isn't a cli for commitbit invites "just" a RESTful post?

[15:20] <obra> gaal: plus a login attempt, but I presumed that meant a local cli

[15:20] <thoughtpolice> hm commitbit loaded for me fine.

[15:20] <obra> anyway, I'm in just ine and could grant commit bits if anyone would like one today

[15:21] <gaal> ah, that's something I always wondered about in Audrey's RHOX presentation.. where creds were hiding

[15:21] *** rfordinal_athome joined
[15:22] <obra> gaal: that depends on how you configure jifty

[15:22] <obra> in general, we're using the authentication::password plugin, which does cookie auth

[15:22] <obra> but we've also done HTTP basic

[15:23] <gaal> I think POST (/usr/bin/POST that is) has HTTP basic

[15:23] *** toyam joined
[15:23] <obra> toyam: can you hand me an email address I can send a commit bit to?

[15:23] *** REPLeffect joined
[15:24] <toyam> sure, if i put it in the channel, will it show up on irc logs

[15:24] <toyam> ?

[15:24] <b_jonas> toyam: write it as a private message to obra

[15:25] <toyam> sorry was having trouble registering my nick - sorted now

[15:25] <fglock> lunch &

[15:27] *** amnesiac joined
[15:39] <svnbot6> r16679 | toyam++ | Added toyam (me).

[15:39] <svnbot6> r16680 | toyam++ | Added kp6 AST doc (from mp6).

[15:40] *** amnesiac joined
[15:43] *** bonesss joined
[15:54] *** buetow joined
[15:54] *** Casan joined
[15:59] *** thepler joined
[16:04] *** elmex joined
[16:15] <fglock> toyam: that is the AST as returned by the grammar; it is further processed depending on what the backend language needs

[16:15] <moritz> toyam++ # work on kp6/mp6

[16:16] *** rindolf joined
[16:16] <fglock> hmm - the regex AST is being processed too early; this could be refactored

[16:17] *** Mankod joined
[16:24] *** franck__ joined
[16:27] *** TJCRI joined
[16:28] *** weinigLap_ joined
[16:30] *** weinigLap_ is now known as weinigLap

[16:30] <svnbot6> r16681 | fglock++ | [kp6] updated plan - the regex-to-procedural transformation should be done by 

[16:30] <svnbot6> r16681 | fglock++ | an optional plugin; this will make it easier to reuse native regex libs (such as

[16:30] <svnbot6> r16681 | fglock++ | PGE for the Parrot backend, and PCR for the Perl 5 backend); the plain mp6 backend

[16:30] <svnbot6> r16681 | fglock++ | is still supported.

[16:42] *** marmic joined
[16:43] *** jisom joined
[16:43] *** justatheory joined
[16:44] *** hirschnase joined
[16:46] *** justatheory joined
[16:53] *** weinigLap joined
[17:10] *** Psyche^ joined
[17:25] *** crashmatrix joined
[17:26] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[17:34] *** gaal changes topic to: http://pugscode.org/ | nopaste: http://sial.org/pbot/perl6 | ?eval [~] <m oo se> | We do Haskell, too | > reverse . show $ foldl1 (*) [1..4]

[17:35] <gaal> (golfing the haskell gives more room to document the purpose of the nopaste url)

[17:35] <moritz> > reverse . show $ foldl1 (*) [1..4]

[17:35] <lambdabot>  "42"

[17:39] <gaal> of course, Perl doesn't need the show, so:

[17:39] <gaal> ?eval reverse [*] 1..4

[17:40] *** evalbot_r16676 is now known as evalbot_r16681

[17:40] <evalbot_r16681> "42"

[17:41] <Juerd> wolverian: Please remove personal files from feather.

[17:44] <fglock> I'm working on a request for review of kp6 architecture, which I want to send to the Perl 6 compiler lists. I'd like to send a first draft to some people to review the text.

[17:45] <gaal> you want a review on the review request?

[17:46] <gaal> I'd say off hand it's too long :)

[17:47] <fglock> gaal: yes

[17:47] <fglock> gaal: you mean the request should be short?

[17:48] <fglock> I was planning to explain what kp6 is

[17:48] <moritz> fglock: you can provide a link for those who don't know

[17:48] <b_jonas> meh

[17:48] <moritz> fglock: many perl6 hackers already now it, i presume

[17:48] *** evalj joined
[17:48] <gaal> I think it should be short enough that you can Just Send It, because you want many people to Just Read It

[17:48] <b_jonas> evalj: |.":!4

[17:48] <evalj> b_jonas: 42

[17:49] <fglock> gaal: makes sense

[17:49] <gaal> and, well, of course, then respond to it :)

[17:49] <b_jonas> evalj: |.":*/>:i.4 NB. in case you don't use the factorial operator

[17:49] <evalj> b_jonas: 42

[17:49] <gaal> evalj. oh my goodness

[17:49] *** isaacd__ joined
[17:50] <b_jonas> though I guess you can skip some whitespace from the perl and haskell ones as well

[17:50] <gaal> anyone got an aplbot handy? put that good ol' unicode to use

[17:50] <gaal> it's not good to shave whitespace off haskell, in general, because it can interfere with template haskell

[17:50] <b_jonas> ?eval reverse [*] 1 +>> ^4

[17:50] <evalbot_r16681> Error: ␤Unexpected ">"

[17:51] <b_jonas> ?eval reverse [*] 1 +<< ^4

[17:51] <evalbot_r16681> Error: ␤Unexpected end of input␤expecting block, "\\", variable name, ">>" or "<<"

[17:51] <b_jonas> not shorter than 1..4 so doesn't matter

[17:51] <b_jonas> ?eval reverse[*]1..4

[17:51] <gaal> hmm why +<< though?

[17:51] <evalbot_r16681> Error: ␤Unexpected "1"␤expecting term postfix or operator

[17:51] <moritz> b_jonas: I think hype operators on only one site of an op are NYI

[17:51] <gaal> ?eval reverse [*] ^5

[17:51] <evalbot_r16681> "0"

[17:51] <gaal> huh?

[17:51] <b_jonas> gaal: that's why

[17:51] <gaal> oh, 0..

[17:52] <b_jonas> moritz: I see, thanks

[17:52] <b_jonas> well, 

[17:52] <b_jonas> evalj: |. ": * / 1 + i. 4

[17:52] <evalj> b_jonas: 42

[17:52] <b_jonas> would probably translate to apl as 8 characters

[17:52] <b_jonas> one for each word above

[17:53] <b_jonas> and that's if you don't use factorial

[17:53] <gaal> what's the reverse operator here, |. ?

[17:53] <b_jonas> which I think at least some apls have

[17:53] <b_jonas> yes, |. is reverse

[17:53] <b_jonas> so

[17:53] <gaal> is there a mnemonic for that?

[17:53] <b_jonas> evalj: |. ": ! 4

[17:53] <evalj> b_jonas: 42

[17:53] <b_jonas> would prolly be 4

[17:53] <b_jonas> but I don't know apl much

[17:54] <b_jonas> gall: if you want mnemonics, use apl not an ascii language :)

[17:54] <b_jonas> but | looks like a mirror

[17:54] <gaal> heh, in that case I'd expect .|. to be reverse...

[17:54] <gaal> brb

[17:57] <b_jonas> apparently the apl equivalent of |. (reverse/rotate) is a circle with a vertical bar through that goes out of the circle on both sides

[17:59] <b_jonas> but of course even more golf would be

[17:59] <b_jonas> evalj: 42

[17:59] <evalj> b_jonas: 42

[17:59] <b_jonas> just two characters

[18:01] <gaal> a circle with a vertical bar? that sounds like (1+sqrt(5))/2

[18:01] <gaal> (phi)

[18:02] <gaal> φ, U+03c6

[18:03] *** TJCRI_ joined
[18:03] <b_jonas> yep

[18:03] <b_jonas> it's called "circle stile" by an apl manual

[18:04] <b_jonas> the character that is, not the function

[18:04] <rindolf> Hi all.

[18:04] <rindolf> Hi b_jonas 

[18:04] <b_jonas> hi

[18:06] <moritz> helo ;)

[18:06] <rindolf> Hi moritz 

[18:06] <rindolf> I'm now wrestling with Apache Ant and Apache fop.

[18:06] <rindolf> On Mandriva cooker.

[18:07] <moritz> brian d foy doesn't seems to to know that perl 6 filehandles autochomp ;)

[18:07] <moritz> see http://use.perl.org/article.pl?sid=07/06/18/1726249&from=rss

[18:07] <lambdabot> Title: use Perl | Learning Perl 6 by brian d foy

[18:07] *** TJCRI_ is now known as TJCRI

[18:08] *** dduncan joined
[18:10] <moritz> and I don't know where he found the 'uniq' method

[18:11] <b_jonas> moritz: in ruby?

[18:11] <moritz> b_jonas: perhaps

[18:11] <moritz> it's not in S29

[18:13] <gaal> &uniq := sub { eval "nub" :lang<haskell> }

[18:14] <gaal> (no, ffi doesn't really look like that)

[18:14] <gaal> (though eval<haskell> does)

[18:15] <fglock> gaal: may I send you my first draft?

[18:16] <gaal> sure! got my email?

[18:17] *** riffraff joined
[18:17] <fglock> got it

[18:17] * riffraff hi

[18:19] <gaal> I got it too. Phone call right now but will read shortly.

[18:19] <fglock> thanks!

[18:25] <moritz> fglock: reply sent

[18:27] <fglock> moritz: working on it

[18:30] *** TimToady joined
[18:42] <fglock> I'm afraid people will have to study kp6 deeply before commenting on design decisions; I wonder how to make this easier

[18:48] *** barney joined
[18:50] *** IllvilJa joined
[18:52] <Juerd> wolverian: Please gzip log files (~/.irssi)

[18:53] <Juerd> fglock: It can be made easier by having more schematic specifications.

[18:54] <Juerd> fglock: I once drew a quick visualisation of how the postfix whitespace rules work, and finally the person I drew it for understood why they were needed.

[18:54] <Juerd> A table of operators, a table of sigils, are easier to grok than bullet point lists with full English sentences.

[18:55] <Juerd> I once started a project for this, but quickly started lacking tuits.

[18:56] <Juerd> Look for quickref.

[18:56] <fglock> Juerd: I could make a higher level view of http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/v6/docs/kp6.jpg

[18:56] <Juerd> Views are needed at all levels.

[18:56] <Juerd> We lack people with documentation skills and tuits :)

[18:57] <Juerd> Nice diagram by the way!

[18:57] <Juerd> What did you use to sketch that?

[18:58] <fglock> it's OmniGraffle

[18:58] <Juerd> Damn that prorietary single platform ultimately cool software! :)

[18:58] *** |Jedai| is now known as jedai

[18:59] <fglock> yes, unfortunately

[18:59] <Juerd> Every time I see such a nice diagram, I ask people how they made it, and I think "Please don't say OmniGraffle... Please let it be something that runs under Linux"

[18:59] <Juerd> And every time they say OmniGraffle :(

[18:59] <Juerd> I'd pay for OG if it ran on Linux.

[19:03] <fglock> gaal: you were right - "it's too long" - I'm getting there

[19:05] <gaal> fglock: just finished the phone call and read the moosage - actually it doesn't seem too long now :)

[19:06] <Tene> I have about a week free before I start my new job.

[19:06] <gaal> will formulate some more response, give me a few minutes

[19:06] <Tene> should have plenty of tuits.

[19:06] <fglock> gaal: I have a longer version :)

[19:06] <gaal> can you send it also pleasE?

[19:06] <gaal> s/E/e/

[19:07] <fglock> it is under editing - but I'll send it as-is

[19:08] <Tene> dunno what I should moose on, though.

[19:09] <rindolf> Can you guys check http://tmp.askask.com/2007/06/XML-RSS-1.30.tar.gz, please?

[19:14] *** |Jedai| joined
[19:15] <Patterner> All tests successful. Files=30, Tests=362, 7 wallclock secs

[19:15] *** [particle1 joined
[19:15] *** mj41_ joined
[19:18] *** jesse__ joined
[19:18] *** OuLouFu joined
[19:18] *** devogon_ joined
[19:19] *** Caelum_ joined
[19:19] *** shachaf_ joined
[19:19] *** jiing_ joined
[19:20] *** mj41_ is now known as mj41

[19:20] *** daxim_ joined
[19:20] *** knewt_ joined
[19:21] *** Maddingue joined
[19:21] *** weinigLap joined
[19:21] *** jedai joined
[19:21] *** ofer joined
[19:21] *** [particle] joined
[19:21] *** jaapweel joined
[19:21] *** araujo joined
[19:21] *** kcwu joined
[19:21] *** pjcj joined
[19:21] *** kunwon1 joined
[19:21] *** SamB joined
[19:21] *** integral joined
[19:21] *** audreyt_ joined
[19:21] *** charsbar_ joined
[19:21] *** args joined
[19:21] *** revdiablo joined
[19:21] *** cognominal_ joined
[19:21] *** diakopter joined
[19:21] *** zamolxes joined
[19:21] *** orafu joined
[19:21] *** Gothmog_ joined
[19:21] *** Grrrr joined
[19:21] *** Caelum joined
[19:21] *** semifor joined
[19:21] *** jiing joined
[19:21] *** shmem joined
[19:21] *** pasteling joined
[19:21] <gaal> fglock: obra's very right

[19:21] *** audreyt_ joined
[19:22] *** shmem joined
[19:22] *** scw joined
[19:22] *** thoughtpolice joined
[19:22] *** Casan joined
[19:22] *** justatheory joined
[19:22] *** marmic joined
[19:22] *** franck__ joined
[19:22] *** buetow joined
[19:22] *** REPLeffect joined
[19:22] *** mncharity joined
[19:22] *** fglock joined
[19:22] *** laye joined
[19:22] *** beppu joined
[19:22] *** r0bby joined
[19:22] *** jianingy joined
[19:22] *** buu joined
[19:22] *** moritz joined
[19:22] *** unobe_away joined
[19:22] *** ruz joined
[19:22] *** rlb3_work joined
[19:22] *** Jmax joined
[19:22] *** lambdabot joined
[19:22] *** SubStack joined
[19:22] *** dwave joined
[19:22] *** svnbot6 joined
[19:22] *** specbot6 joined
[19:22] *** lumi joined
[19:22] *** miyagawa joined
[19:22] *** allbery_b joined
[19:22] *** obra joined
[19:22] *** qmole joined
[19:22] *** evalbot_r16681 joined
[19:22] *** cj joined
[19:22] *** irclogbot joined
[19:22] *** tcliou joined
[19:22] *** jiing_2 joined
[19:22] *** ingy joined
[19:22] *** nipotaway joined
[19:22] *** xinming joined
[19:22] *** pjcj joined
[19:22] *** orevdiabl joined
[19:22] *** amadeus joined
[19:22] *** autark joined
[19:22] *** obvio171_ joined
[19:22] *** baest joined
[19:22] *** barney joined
[19:23] *** pnu joined
[19:23] *** kunwon1 joined
[19:24] *** cmarcelo joined
[19:24] *** charsbar_ joined
[19:24] *** jianingy_ joined
[19:24] *** Lunchy joined
[19:24] *** blaze-x joined
[19:24] *** ting_ joined
[19:25] *** semifor joined
[19:25] *** spinclad joined
[19:25] *** zamolxes joined
[19:26] *** buubot joined
[19:27] *** crashmatrix joined
[19:27] <thoughtpolice> hm, nice netsplit

[19:28] *** riffraff joined
[19:28] *** IllvilJa joined
[19:28] *** buubot joined
[19:28] <svnbot6> r16682 | fglock++ | [kp6] added 'hello.pl'

[19:30] *** dduncan joined
[19:30] *** rindolf joined
[19:32] *** jjore-w joined
[19:32] *** daxim joined
[19:35] *** shachaf_ is now known as shachaf

[19:44] *** buubot joined
[19:51] *** toyam left
[19:54] *** japhb joined
[19:59] *** theorbtwo joined
[20:08] *** ofer joined
[20:15] *** buetow joined
[20:20] *** fglock joined
[20:32] <wolverian> Juerd, the songs? done. sorry about that. they were ours though (our band, that is) :)

[20:45] <moritz> fglock: your current draft is _much_ better than the first one ;)

[20:46] <fglock> moritz: thanks for the help :)

[20:46] <moritz> you're welcome

[20:48] <spinclad> fglock: if you're still looking for pre-review, i'll take a look.

[20:49] <fglock> spinclad: sent

[20:50] <spinclad> thx

[20:56] *** diakopter is now known as diakopter_afk

[20:58] *** Caelum_ is now known as Caelum

[21:05] <gaal> fglock: s/only question you have/only input you're interested in hearing/, in my email

[21:06] *** stevan_ joined
[21:06] <fglock> gaal: ok

[21:08] <gaal> hee, i just corrected a possible false impression about what false impression i think you should avoid, during a response to a request for review of a request for review.

[21:09] <moritz> *LOL*

[21:10] <moritz> gaal: would you mind if I add that line to my fortune file? *g*

[21:10] <spinclad> sweet

[21:10] <gaal> It would make me feel fortunate if you did

[21:11] <moritz> [x] done

[21:12] <fglock> heh

[21:13] * gaal feels fortunate. and sleepy. no relation; but the immediate course of action is plotted.

[21:13] * gaal waves :)

[21:13] <moritz> sex? *SCNR*

[21:13] <moritz> sleep well ;)

[21:19] <fglock> home &

[21:23] *** TJCRI joined
[21:26] * Tene laughs.

[21:27] <Tene> gaal++

[21:29] <Juerd> wolverian: As a rule of thumb, assume that only plain text files/communication are allowed for non-perl stuff :)

[21:29] <Juerd> wolverian: In other cases, if you really have no other option, ask me.

[21:29] <Juerd> wolverian: It's not about copyright or anything, by the way :)

[21:31] <thoughtpolice> Juerd: did you get my email (at all)?

[21:31] <Juerd> thoughtpolice: Yes, got it

[21:32] <thoughtpolice> Juerd: would they happen to be in russian?

[21:32] <Juerd> thoughtpolice: Err... no. If you tried Russian, sorry, it didn't work :)

[21:33] <thoughtpolice> Juerd: er, I meant the reply's

[21:33] <Juerd> I hope not

[21:34] <Juerd> RT is configured to send replies in Dutch and English

[21:34] <thoughtpolice> I suppose that's what it is. :) i'm not much on being able to distinguish many foreign languages.

[21:35] <Juerd> Russian has a different alphabet

[21:35] <Juerd> They letters don't look like the ones we're using now.

[21:35] <Juerd> Well, some do. But it's easy to see the difference

[21:37] <Juerd> thoughtpolice: Check your mail

[21:38] <thoughtpolice> Juerd: ah, thanks. :)

[21:39] <Juerd> thoughtpolice: You're welcome :)

[21:42] *** REPLeffe1t joined
[21:44] *** diakopter_afk is now known as diakopter

[21:55] *** Psyche^ joined
[21:57] *** buubot joined
[22:00] <wolverian> Juerd, ah, okay. makes sense. 

[22:00] <wolverian> Juerd, I just tend to forget to remove stuff I've dcced :)

[22:01] <Juerd> wolverian: dcc into a temp dir, and set up a cronjob?

[22:02] <wolverian> not a bad idea

[22:12] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[22:36] *** weinigLap joined
[22:41] <nothingmuch> w^H/w 25

[23:00] *** buubot joined
[23:10] *** Limbic_Region joined
[23:12] *** weinigLap_ joined
[23:13] *** weinigLap_ joined
[23:21] *** buubot joined
[23:22] <buu> buubot: echo 1+1

[23:22] <buubot> 1+1

[23:23] <buu> Whups.

[23:24] <Tene> buubot: explode

[23:30] *** gaal joined
[23:31] *** lumi joined
[23:40] *** buetow joined
[23:41] *** marmic joined
[23:44] *** larsen_ joined
[23:44] *** dwave joined
[23:48] *** weinigLap joined
[23:53] *** Jmax joined
