[00:00] *** Aankhen`` joined
[00:05] <svnbot6> r15221 | putter++ | misc/pX/Common/yet_another_regex_engine - some non-demonstrable progress.

[00:08] *** Psyche^ joined
[00:10] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[00:15] *** jferrero joined
[00:35] *** gnuvince joined
[00:39] <svnbot6> r15222 | lwall++ | pugs parseability tweaks

[00:48] <svnbot6> r15223 | lwall++ | better workaround

[00:52] *** nipotaway is now known as nipotan

[01:03] *** dduncan joined
[01:03] *** MikeJS joined
[01:21] <allbery_b> amusingly that last typo fix missed a typo in the next line:  "triger"

[01:23] *** rashakil_ is now known as rashakil

[01:32] *** dmq joined
[01:57] <svnbot6> r15224 | putter++ | misc/pX/Common/yet_another_regex_engine - minor progress.  --repl is currently speaking a P5WithSubrules dialect.

[02:13] *** zev_ joined
[02:23] *** Aankhen`` joined
[02:26] *** thepler joined
[02:26] *** masak_ joined
[02:27] *** Debolaz joined
[02:27] <Debolaz> http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pugs&curid=1532361&diff=106736305&oldid=106069367 heh, I wish they'd be more creative at least.

[02:27] <lambdabot> http://tinyurl.com/298n2s

[02:36] <svnbot6> r15225 | putter++ | misc/pX/Common/yet_another_regex_engine/ - Now, to play with a code fork, just copy a single file.  You can use the same tests.  Thus it is easy to check in and share your explorations.  See README.

[02:39] <svnbot6> r15226 | putter++ | cleanup after r15225 - svn didn't like this directory removal being part of the revision.

[02:45] *** [particle] joined
[02:53] *** mjk joined
[03:00] *** rashakil_ joined
[03:03] <svnbot6> r15227 | audreyt++ | * Pugs.Types.Array: @array.delete(1) should remove the

[03:03] <svnbot6> r15227 | audreyt++ |   binding (i.e. same as @array[1] := ::Scalar()), not

[03:03] <svnbot6> r15227 | audreyt++ |   the same as assigning undef into @array[1].

[03:15] *** [particle] joined
[03:15] *** bucky joined
[03:20] *** mrossetti joined
[03:23] *** bsb joined
[03:43] *** Psyche^ joined
[03:43] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[03:48] *** putter joined
[03:51] <putter> Anyone know what the story is regards ':' in S05?   Is : as a sequence commit operator gone?  Having it as a quantifier commit is nice, but doesn't seem to subsume its former role.

[03:52] <TimToady> what do you mean by a sequence commit operator?

[03:53] <TimToady> it has always applied only to the previous token.

[03:55] <TimToady> previous atom, I should say

[03:56] <putter> (?>...)...  => ... : ...

[03:56] <putter> no?

[03:56] <TimToady> => [...]:

[03:56] <putter> np

[03:58] <putter> what was the motivating reason for attaching it to the atom, vs being standalone like :: and ::: ?

[04:00] <svnbot6> r15228 | audreyt++ | * log.t: unTODO

[04:01] <TimToady> well, that's a smaller scope than [...], and often handy

[04:01] <TimToady> and the same scope as quantifiers

[04:03] <putter> pity it makes incremental commit brackety.

[04:04] <putter> [[[ ... ]: ... ]: ... ]: ...   vs ... : ... : ... : ...

[04:04] <TimToady> :: works for that

[04:05] <TimToady> 'sides, we have :ratchet

[04:05] <audreyt> TimToady: the nofat rule.

[04:05] <TimToady> ?

[04:05] <TimToady> I noticed pugs flunked "use =>"

[04:05] <svnbot6> r15229 | audreyt++ | * arrays.t: Fix bogus test.

[04:05] <audreyt> it has \h

[04:06] <audreyt> er, it no longer

[04:06] <putter> re ::, ?    [...]: ...  || ...  !=  ... :: ... || ...

[04:06] <audreyt> as of r15230

[04:06] *** justatheory joined
[04:06] <putter> (assuming I'm correctly remembering || is the p5 | )

[04:06] *** nipra joined
[04:06] <svnbot6> r15230 | audreyt++ | * Pugs.Lexer: Implement the <nofat> regex so:

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15230 | audreyt++ |     use => 1

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15230 | audreyt++ |   etc can work.

[04:07] <TimToady> good, though I worked around it

[04:07] <TimToady> ?eval "if => 1"

[04:07] <evalbot_r15228> "if => 1"

[04:07] <TimToady> ?eval if => 1

[04:07] <audreyt> pugs> if => 1

[04:07] <audreyt> ("if", 1)

[04:07] <evalbot_r15228> Error: ␤Unexpected ">"

[04:08] <TimToady> 228

[04:08] <putter> re :ratchet,   ... : ...  !=   . : . : . : . : . : .     ;)

[04:08] <audreyt> anyway, so I'm wondering, isn't that essentially reparse?

[04:08] <audreyt> as the \h* is different as used in the normal \s* after the "if"

[04:08] <audreyt> <ws>, even

[04:08] <audreyt> which means the spaces in "if =>1" needs to be parsed twice

[04:09] <TimToady> yes, I'm assuming that branch will usually fail completely

[04:09] <audreyt> ok...

[04:09] <TimToady> putter, if everything that can be backtracked is :, then its the same as backing all the way out anyway

[04:09] <audreyt> in Pugs.Lexer I merged with <ws> handling to avoid reparse

[04:10] <audreyt> and so "if\n=>1" would be allowed

[04:10] <audreyt> I wonder what's the downside of that?

[04:10] <audreyt> (aside from not being faithful to perl5)

[04:10] <putter> no doubt I'm missing something obvious, but...

[04:10] <TimToady> eh, p5 doesn't care

[04:11] <TimToady> it's just a comma

[04:11] <audreyt> $ perl

[04:11] <audreyt> if

[04:11] <audreyt> => 1

[04:11] <audreyt> syntax error at - line 2, near "=>"

[04:11] <audreyt> $ perl

[04:11] <audreyt> if => 1

[04:11] <audreyt> $

[04:11] <TimToady> interesting

[04:12] <audreyt> ditto "use"

[04:12] <audreyt> so p5 does care

[04:12] <putter> Given  <a> <b> : <c> || <d>   it seems the only correct transform is the first mentioned   [ <a> <b> ]: <c> || <d>

[04:12] <putter> all the other arguments seem to be "yes, incremental commit is brackety, but given this other

[04:12] <putter> stuff, it won't come up that often".

[04:13] <putter> what am I missing?

[04:13] <TimToady> :: already does what you want

[04:13] <TimToady> : is aimed more as possessive quantification

[04:14] <putter> :: commits the surrounding alternation, no?    In the example, a failing <c> should not preclude <d> being tried.

[04:17] <TimToady> hmm, yeah, but it still seems to me that :ratchet takes away most of your use case

[04:18] <putter> could be.  I haven't pondered.  always just assumed : was like :: and :::.

[04:18] <TimToady> and there's certainly no guarantee that just because you didn't want to backtrack <b> that you don't want to backtrack <a>

[04:18] <audreyt> was like that initially

[04:19] <TimToady> .*? \d+: for instance

[04:19] <TimToady> well, maybe that's a bad example

[04:19] <TimToady> .*? foo \d+:

[04:19] <putter> re no guarantee... oo, good point.  that could be worth trading bracketyness for

[04:20] <TimToady> and I got my fill of brackets with (?>...)   :)

[04:21] <TimToady> 'course, now that we actually put in possessive +, we could write

[04:21] <TimToady> .*? foo \d++

[04:22] <TimToady> but that doesn't work for brackets

[04:23] <TimToady> [...]+ means something else

[04:23] <putter> re "got fill", err, we still have [[[ ... ]: ... ]: ... ]: ... ugliness.  we're just saying it comes up less frequently in p6, and it's worth the pain in order to do   ... [...]: ...  which otherwise would be painfully like ... [...] : ...

[04:23] <TimToady> you'd have to write things like [...:]

[04:23] <TimToady> which just looks wrong

[04:24] <TimToady> and is terribly ambiguous if there's | inside too

[04:24] <putter> yeah :(

[04:24] *** mako132_ joined
[04:25] <TimToady> In the whole P6 grammar I've not wanted : once, as far as I recall.

[04:25] <TimToady> but then I'm relying on :ratchet and longest-token-ish-ness

[04:25] <putter> the whole p6 grammar is designed to be non-backtracking...

[04:25] <TimToady> well, there is that.. :D

[04:26] <putter> lol

[04:26] <TimToady> though I still haven't tackled a non-backtracking [email@hidden.address] matcher

[04:27] <TimToady> since you can't decide whether it's interpolating till you see the ()

[04:27] <TimToady> one could hold things in two states "@obj" is array or string...

[04:28] <TimToady> the heredoc whitespace trimmer has to do things after the fact as well.

[04:29] <TimToady> and as audreyt was pointing out <ident> \h* => is also a bit of a problem.

[04:30] <audreyt> I wonder if hash composer can be moved from circum {} to circum :{}

[04:30] <audreyt> and leave circum {} to code.

[04:31] <audreyt> (that is also a postprocess point, and disambig diagnostics surrounding it)

[04:32] <audreyt> eg the one STD.pm used to trigger: "Closing hash curly may not terminate a line;\nplease add a comma or a semicolon to disambiguate"

[04:32] <TimToady> well, %[...] might work as well

[04:33] <TimToady> we talked about this some the other day, but I haven't come to any conclusion yet.

[04:33] <audreyt> sure, but was looking at notational space of null-keyed pairs in p6 terms

[04:33] <audreyt> since they have proved so useful as rx terms :)

[04:33] <TimToady> heh

[04:33] <TimToady> except we've got :{...} adverbial blocks, I think

[04:33] * putter likes a policy of "given two equally pretty alternatives, only one non-backtracking, choose that.  but don't make the language uglier just to make the grammar non-backtracking.  nothing much is gained, as the parser will have to deal with user modifications inducing backtracking anyway."  no?

[04:34] <TimToady> yeah, on the ident => thing, it actually only backtracks if it sees the =>, because it has to uncommit the keyword in that case.

[04:35] *** Psyche^ joined
[04:35] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[04:36] <audreyt> ah right. because \h* is subset of <ws> not the other way around

[04:36] <audreyt> ok, fine then

[04:37] * audreyt goes back to Fast MO Dispatch

[04:37] *** jiing joined
[04:38] <audreyt> but maybe I should get trac set up first.

[04:39] <TimToady> and maybe mappings should just autopromote to hashes with sufficient provocation.

[04:39] <audreyt> like assigning into a scalar?

[04:40] <audreyt> (analogous to List/Array)

[04:40] <TimToady> dunno, but definitely assigning to anything that doesn't care about the order

[04:40] <audreyt> so Mapping composer becomes %() and Hash composer becomes %[]

[04:41] <TimToady> lemme stew on it for a while more

[04:42] <audreyt> sure, same for the .:delete

[04:49] *** amnesiac joined
[04:50] *** jdv79 joined
[05:14] *** drbean joined
[05:27] *** nipra joined
[05:37] *** bsb joined
[05:39] *** amnesiac joined
[05:51] *** nipra joined
[05:55] <svnbot6> r15231 | putter++ | project_planning/TASKS - Added a new task: Snarf new parrot regex tests into pugs t/regex/p6regex/.

[05:55] <svnbot6> r15231 | putter++ | project_planning/TASKS_DONE - created.

[05:55] <svnbot6> r15231 | putter++ | Moved a done task from TASKS to TASKS_DONE file. moritz++ 

[06:03] *** cnhackTNT joined
[06:13] *** BooK joined
[06:23] *** jisom joined
[06:24] *** justatheory joined
[06:35] *** buetow joined
[06:36] *** bsb left
[06:51] *** jisom_ joined
[06:54] *** rfordinal joined
[07:21] *** leed joined
[07:58] *** sarg joined
[07:58] *** sarg left
[08:03] *** iblechbot joined
[08:04] <audreyt> help wanted!

[08:05] <audreyt> does dev.pugscode.org resolve/display currently (DNS just setup)?

[08:06] <tene> resolves for me

[08:06] <allbery_b> works for me

[08:06] <tene> "Pugs - Trac"

[08:07] <gaal> works here too.

[08:08] <audreyt> try login with commitbit 

[08:08] <audreyt> click "Login"

[08:08] <audreyt> and see if admin pages like http://dev.pugscode.org/admin/ticket/components display correctly

[08:10] *** pdcawley joined
[08:10] <audreyt> @tell putter is it okay if we port project_planning/ into dev.pugscode.org? it's a bit more structured there, and it'd be great if we populate sufficient tickets/milestone/version/component metadata (use the "Admin" link on the left) so people can see a coherent "Roadmap" in http://dev.pugscode.org/roadmap

[08:10] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[08:11] <allbery_b> dislikes my password

[08:11] <gaal> i can't login either.

[08:12] <gaal> iirc commitbit username ~~ email, unlike openfoundry

[08:12] <gaal> but that neither works.

[08:12] <audreyt> hm.

[08:15] <audreyt> fixing

[08:18] <audreyt> aha, bad PAM interaction

[08:19] <audreyt> try again?

[08:19] <audreyt> (should work this time)

[08:19] <gaal> yes

[08:19] <gaal> userid, not email

[08:19] <audreyt> userid is correct

[08:20] <gaal> *nod*

[08:20] <audreyt> maybe edit homepage to say so? :)

[08:20] <allbery_b> yep

[08:20] <gaal> btw is there a web svn diff?

[08:20] <gaal> will edit

[08:21] <gaal> "logging in with your Pugs committer id" <- already says so :)

[08:21] <gaal> the confusion's only possible because commitbit uses the email.

[08:22] <audreyt> yes, web svn diff

[08:22] <gaal> oh found it, it's nice

[08:22] <audreyt> going to allow snapshot tgz download. sec

[08:23] <allbery_b> when I went to your admin url I get a page saying "internal error / no admin pages available

[08:23] <gaal> oh, it's *excellent* even, with its sleek multifile diff and option for unidiff

[08:25] <gaal> i don't even see an admin link. :)

[08:25] <allbery_b> <audreyt> and see if admin pages like http://dev.pugscode.org/admin/ticket/components display correctly

[08:25] <allbery_b> I saw no admin link either

[08:26] <allbery_b> of course that may just mean I'm not an admin (which would make sense...)

[08:26] <audreyt> huh.

[08:26] <audreyt> oh well, instead of separating admin vs committer

[08:26] <audreyt> I might as well ignore commitbit settings and make all authors admins

[08:26] <audreyt> anarchy++

[08:27] <audreyt> done

[08:27] <audreyt> try again

[08:27] <clkao> audreyt!

[08:27] <audreyt> a http://dev.pugscode.org/admin should magickally appear

[08:27] <gaal> i like how some components have "somebody" as their owner and some don't got nobody.

[08:27] *** rgs joined
[08:27] <audreyt> clkao: heya! I've got this GoodEnough(tm) Trac 0.10 set up!

[08:27] <audreyt> as compared to, e.g., a customized hiveminder

[08:28] <clkao> audreyt: what do you mean? also would you like to visit me this sunday

[08:28] <audreyt> clkao: http://dev.pugscode.org/ (login with your pugs id)

[08:28] <lambdabot> Title: Pugs - Trac

[08:28] <audreyt> clkao: no, got family gathering sorry

[08:29] <audreyt> @tell putter the Admin link should work now - when I get timeslice I'll be happy to chat about org, but for now I think porting tickets over would make (some) sense? also add new components / milestones / etc as needed

[08:29] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[08:30] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[08:34] <audreyt> hm, automagic RSS feeds. could be useful

[08:34] <audreyt> (the one at bottom of http://dev.pugscode.org/timeline)

[08:34] <lambdabot> Title: Timeline - Pugs - Trac

[08:37] <gaal> putting up putter++'s christmas graph there could be nice

[08:39] <lumi> It works, I can login, and the admin pages show

[08:40] <audreyt> cool. it might be useful to shop around http://trac-hacks.org/ and install useful things in http://dev.pugscode.org/admin/general/plugin

[08:40] <lambdabot> Title: Trac Hacks - Plugins Macros etc. - Trac

[08:40] <audreyt> but mostly it's about content now

[08:41] <audreyt> I really need to find food (and maybe work on Monday's slides) -- but hopefully this can get us a bit more transparency

[08:41] <audreyt> GHC was impossible to hack, but ever since http://cvs.haskell.org/trac/ghc/wiki/Commentary is up

[08:41] <lambdabot> Title: Commentary - GHC - Trac

[08:42] <gaal> whee cool: http://trac-hacks.org/wiki/GraphvizPlugin

[08:42] <lambdabot> Title: GraphvizPlugin - Trac Hacks - Plugins Macros etc. - Trac

[08:42] <audreyt> hacking suddenly became much much easier

[08:42] <audreyt> lifting the GHC commentary's outline, or something like it, to dev.pugscode may be fun too

[08:43] <audreyt> gaal: you can install plugins remotely by uploading the PAR file

[08:43] <audreyt> er, I mean EGG file.

[08:43] <gaal> cool. uh, i forget where putter's dag is

[08:43] <audreyt> conveniently it's linked to from the wiki home

[08:43] <audreyt> http://dev.pugscode.org/browser/project_planning/a_dependency_graph.png 

[08:43] <lambdabot> Title: /project_planning/a_dependency_graph.png - Pugs - Trac, http://tinyurl.com/yu9fvz

[08:43] <audreyt> http://dev.pugscode.org/browser/project_planning/a_dependency_graph.dot

[08:44] <lambdabot> Title: /project_planning/a_dependency_graph.dot - Pugs - Trac, http://tinyurl.com/24btwq

[08:44] <gaal> excellent!

[08:44] <gaal> conveniently it's in .dot :)

[08:45] *** iblechbot_ joined
[08:46] *** drrho joined
[08:48] *** NewCoke_ joined
[08:49] <gaal> ok I know zero python. to build the gv plugin, I need "setuptools" installed. how do I do that on debian?

[08:49] <audreyt> it's already.

[08:49] <audreyt> but shouldn't you just download the .egg to your laptop

[08:49] <audreyt> and then upload it again in the plugins page?

[08:49] <moritz> aptitude install python-setuptools

[08:49] <gaal> ImportError: No module named setuptools

[08:49] <moritz> I'd guess ;)

[08:50] <gaal> is there a binary egg somewhere?

[08:50] <gaal> don't see it

[08:51] <audreyt> oh I see, you need to make an egg first

[08:51] <gaal> yeah okay found alink w/ explanations.

[08:53] <audreyt> platform-neutral bytecode really is goodthing

[08:53] <gaal> yay, that was really easy.

[08:53] <gaal> for reference:

[08:53] <gaal> wget http://peak.telecommunity.com/dist/ez_setup.py

[08:53] <gaal> sudo python ez_setup.py

[08:53] <gaal> python setup.py bdist_egg

[08:55] <audreyt> and find the egg under dist/

[08:55] <gaal> yeah. thoguh now the upload fails, with no meaningful error message.

[08:55] <gaal> but yeah, i'll moose it from here.

[08:56] <audreyt> the PAR equivalent is simply "parl -p"

[08:56] <audreyt> but PAR::Repository is not really so well-adopted or supported

[08:57] <audreyt> let me check errorlog

[08:58] <gaal> was looking for it. where's trac instlaled?

[08:58] <gaal> on feather that is

[08:58] <gaal> brb

[08:58] <audreyt> heh, bad typo on part of trac

[08:58] <audreyt> it's in /usr/share/trac

[09:00] <dduncan> with this talk about GHC 6.8, any guesses around when it'll be out?

[09:01] <dduncan> or should I say, does the current 6.7 do that stuff?

[09:01] <dduncan> about GPUs

[09:02] <dduncan> or never mind

[09:03] <audreyt> gaal: works now.

[09:04] <gaal> thanks.

[09:04] <audreyt> dduncan: http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/GHC/Data_Parallel_Haskell

[09:04] <lambdabot> Title: GHC/Data Parallel Haskell - HaskellWiki

[09:04] <dduncan> ok

[09:04] <audreyt> in short: not really GPUs, but true SMP linear-scale parallelism; also SSE instructions is in

[09:05] <audreyt> the ndp library is not yet core, but if you install it as third-party then you can already use those data structures

[09:05] *** pfarmer joined
[09:05] <audreyt> the plan is to make it core and then map the native syntax support for GHC parallel-arrays, so our usercode don't need to change

[09:06] <audreyt> it just automagically gets parallelism

[09:06] <gaal> audreyt: where does it put the plugin/conf file? it's not in /usr/share/trac/plugins etc.

[09:06] <dduncan> ok

[09:06] <audreyt> I'd say another month or two before that's generally stable

[09:06] <audreyt> gaal: /data/svn/trac

[09:06] <gaal> thanks

[09:06] <audreyt> np

[09:06] <audreyt> bbiab

[09:07] <audreyt> gaal: the bug was, very sillily: http://trac.edgewall.org/attachment/ticket/3168/plugin_upload.patch

[09:07] <lambdabot> Title: #3168: plugin_upload.patch - The Trac Project - Trac, http://tinyurl.com/2735tq

[09:07] <audreyt> but trac++ to make it instantly findable

[09:09] *** marmic joined
[09:14] <dduncan> fyi, I would expect that this low-level support for parallelism should give my work a large speed boost, which deals heavily with unordered parallel collections

[09:15] <gaal> heh.

[09:15] <gaal> three mo ago? hmm

[09:15] <audreyt> dduncan: as long as you use hyperops and junctions the win should be automatic

[09:15] <dduncan> yes

[09:16] <gaal> how do i restart trac's apache?

[09:16] <audreyt> gaal: you tell me to

[09:16] <gaal> (I needed to edit trac.ini)

[09:16] <gaal> audreyt: pls restart trac apache k thx

[09:16] <audreyt> # sudo /etc/init.d/apache restart

[09:16] *** devogon joined
[09:16] <audreyt> already did

[09:16] <gaal> thanks :)

[09:16] <audreyt> :)

[09:17] <audreyt> oh hey I see a graphviz plugin

[09:17] <audreyt> that's very moose

[09:17] <gaal> uh how do i create a new page on the wiki?

[09:17] <dduncan> I don't know if junctions specifically are very applicable to what I'm doing, but working with sets is very relevant

[09:18] <audreyt> gaal: you link to it?

[09:18] <dduncan> I also plan to be writing in functional notation as much as possible

[09:18] <audreyt> eg http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/ThisPageIsNotHere

[09:18] <allbery_b> typically you just try to go to it

[09:18] <dduncan> or maybe I will be using junctions a lot, or at least junction syntax

[09:18] <audreyt> also part of GHC 6.8 is the integration of an event model

[09:19] <audreyt> instead of like everybody else where event-queue and thread-scheduler are two subsystems, they are now unified

[09:20] <audreyt> so we can have a "view" of arbitrarily low-level async events, and a "view" of convenient thread-STM abstractions, both describing the same things

[09:20] <audreyt> it's like Coro::Event but reentrant and nonblocking and SMP :)

[09:20] <dduncan> in any event, if things go to plan, I should have a Perl 5 prototype of what I want to do within a few weeks, and then we can figure out the best Perl 6 syntax to represent the same work

[09:21] <audreyt> dduncan: excellent.

[09:21] <Caelum> so there'll be awesome POE thingie for perl6?

[09:21] <dduncan> the latter should be a lot more concise

[09:21] <audreyt> Caelum: that seems to follow naturally, yes

[09:21] <audreyt> need to figure out the event interface's userland ergonomics

[09:21] <Caelum> cool :)

[09:21] <audreyt> but that's @Larry's forte

[09:22] <tene> audreyt: you have a convenient link describing the event model stuff?

[09:22] <audreyt> (the STM vocabluary we ended up (contend/maybe/defer) is lovely)

[09:22] <audreyt> tene: sure, http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~lipeng/homepage/unify.html

[09:22] <lambdabot> Title: Unifying events and threads

[09:22] <tene> audreyt: thanks

[09:22] <tene> audreyt++

[09:23] <dduncan> good night

[09:23] *** dduncan left
[09:25] <gaal> http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/ProjectDependencyGraph

[09:26] <lambdabot> Title: ProjectDependencyGraph - Pugs - Trac

[09:26] <gaal> but we have to find a way to this automatically

[09:27] <gaal> also, if there's a nicer way to display dot files in browsers than huge pngs, that'd rock too.

[09:32] <audreyt> ZGRViewer surely?

[09:33] *** Aankhen`` joined
[09:36] *** buetow joined
[09:37] <gaal> cute!

[09:39] * smash good morning

[09:40] <buu> Explosive!

[09:41] <gaal> this looks promising: http://zvtm.sourceforge.net/zgrviewer/applet/

[09:41] <lambdabot> Title: claribole.net - ZGRViewer Applet

[09:41] <gaal> but the svg must be on the same server as the applet

[09:42] <gaal> I <3 how they avoid requiring graphviz clientside by parsing svg :)

[09:43] <gaal> bbiab&

[09:46] *** buubot joined
[09:57] *** elmex joined
[10:02] *** pdcawley joined
[10:03] *** Grub_Now joined
[10:03] *** Grub_Now left
[10:15] *** GabrielVieira2 joined
[10:26] <Aankhen``> That "Unifying events and threads" paper made my head explode.

[10:46] *** ruoso joined
[10:46] *** jferrero joined
[11:17] *** foo\ joined
[11:20] *** devogon joined
[11:36] *** ofer0 joined
[11:39] *** jferrero joined
[11:39] *** alexg joined
[11:58] *** devogon joined
[12:01] *** TimToady joined
[12:08] *** VanilleBert joined
[12:12] *** kanru joined
[12:14] *** chris2 joined
[12:31] *** orafu joined
[12:35] *** rashakil joined
[12:46] *** cjeris joined
[12:46] *** iblechbot joined
[13:08] *** Schwern joined
[13:09] *** nipotan is now known as nipotaway

[13:20] *** Limbic_Region joined
[13:37] *** bonesss joined
[13:37] *** bonesss joined
[13:46] *** VanilleBert left
[13:58] *** trym__ joined
[13:59] *** jferrero joined
[14:13] *** neonse joined
[14:27] *** vel joined
[14:39] *** polettix joined
[14:39] *** neonse joined
[14:39] *** Schwern joined
[14:39] *** cjeris joined
[14:39] *** rashakil joined
[14:39] *** devogon joined
[14:39] *** ruoso joined
[14:39] *** GabrielVieira2 joined
[14:39] *** rgs joined
[14:39] *** rfordinal joined
[14:39] *** BooK joined
[14:39] *** drbean joined
[14:39] *** jdv79 joined
[14:39] *** Patterner joined
[14:39] *** [particle] joined
[14:39] *** thepler joined
[14:39] *** sri_ joined
[14:39] *** stevan__ joined
[14:39] *** Caelum joined
[14:39] *** kolibrie joined
[14:39] *** lumi joined
[14:39] *** drupek12167 joined
[14:39] *** Southen joined
[14:39] *** araujo joined
[14:39] *** jcrigby joined
[14:39] *** pnu joined
[14:39] *** nekokak_ joined
[14:39] *** spinclad joined
[14:39] *** baest joined
[14:39] *** spo0nman joined
[14:39] *** stef_ joined
[14:39] *** mj41 joined
[14:39] *** tokuhirom joined
[14:39] *** beppu_ joined
[14:39] *** allbery_b joined
[14:39] *** pasteling joined
[14:39] *** Khisanth joined
[14:39] *** qmole_ joined
[14:39] *** mugwump joined
[14:39] *** integral joined
[14:39] *** f0rth joined
[14:39] *** SamB joined
[14:39] *** takanori joined
[14:39] *** Daveman joined
[14:39] *** diotalevi joined
[14:39] *** rafl joined
[14:39] *** TreyHarris joined
[14:39] *** xern joined
[14:39] *** Odin- joined
[14:39] *** SCalimlim joined
[14:39] *** idiotmax_ joined
[14:39] *** awwaiid joined
[14:39] *** dvorak joined
[14:39] *** tene joined
[14:39] *** ingy joined
[14:39] *** evalbot_r15228 joined
[14:39] *** yves joined
[14:39] *** takesako__ joined
[14:39] *** nnunley joined
[14:39] *** broquaint joined
[14:39] *** LCamel_ joined
[14:39] *** Gothmog_ joined
[14:39] *** jamessan joined
[14:39] *** gugod joined
[14:39] *** arguile joined
[14:39] *** mtve joined
[14:39] *** buu joined
[14:39] *** GeJ joined
[14:39] *** clkao joined
[14:39] *** obra joined
[14:39] *** nothingmuch joined
[14:39] *** Shabble joined
[14:39] *** trym__ joined
[14:39] *** cls_bsd joined
[14:39] *** spoop joined
[14:39] *** lisppaste3 joined
[14:39] *** beppu__ joined
[14:39] *** Grrrr joined
[14:39] *** merlyn joined
[14:39] *** avar joined
[14:39] *** DebolazX joined
[14:39] *** knewt joined
[14:39] *** Yappo joined
[14:39] *** perlbot joined
[14:39] *** jql joined
[14:39] *** felipe joined
[14:39] *** cj joined
[14:44] *** mdiep joined
[14:49] *** iblechbot joined
[14:59] *** cnhackTN1 joined
[15:08] *** mdiep joined
[15:10] *** kkosmo joined
[15:12] *** elmex joined
[15:24] *** orafu joined
[15:32] *** woremacx joined
[15:44] *** pjcj joined
[15:51] *** hexmode joined
[15:54] *** hcchien joined
[16:10] *** iblechbot joined
[16:10] <svnbot6> r15232 | moritz++ | Added testcases for print with explicit filehandle $*DEFOUT

[16:17] *** mrossetti joined
[16:33] *** _jcrigby joined
[16:53] *** justatheory joined
[16:53] <moritz> ?eval (1, 2, 3).isa("Array")

[16:53] *** evalbot_r15228 is now known as evalbot_r15232

[16:53] <evalbot_r15232> Bool::True

[16:53] <moritz> hey, isn't that a list but not an array?

[16:53] *** rindolf joined
[16:54] <rindolf> Hi all!

[16:54] <moritz> hi rindolf ;)

[16:54] <rindolf> How do I evaluate perl6 code here?

[16:54] <rindolf> Hi moritz 

[16:54] <rindolf> moritz: what's up?

[16:54] <moritz> ?eval say "Hello, reindolf"

[16:54] <evalbot_r15232> OUTPUT[Hello, reindolf␤] Bool::True

[16:54] <rindolf> moritz: thanks!

[16:54] <moritz> rindolf: np ;)

[16:54] <[particle]> if you want to do a lot of playing around, use run.pugscode.org

[16:55] <moritz> [particle]: is (1, 2) a list, an array or both?

[16:55] <[particle]> that way you don't flood the channel with evals

[16:55] <[particle]> moritz: i think the answer is yes due to autopromotion

[16:56] <moritz> damned, I shouldn't ask "or"-questions ;)

[16:56] <moritz> ok

[16:58] <rindolf> [particle]: hmmm... I get weird formatting errors there on Konqi 3.5.6. Let me try in Firefox.

[17:00] *** stevan_ joined
[17:01] <rindolf> print $s.uc();

[17:01] <rindolf> pugs>  Sorry, that took too long! Aborted.

[17:07] <svnbot6> r15233 | moritz++ | lc/uc test cases with German Umlauts

[17:10] <TimToady> yes, a list promotes to array in scalar context, and HERE.foo is a scalar context

[17:11] <moritz> TimToady: so .isa("List") and .isa("Array") are always the same?

[17:12] <rindolf> Hmmm... print $s; reports that it takes too long in http://feather.perl6.nl:8080/runpugs/?

[17:12] <lambdabot> Title: Run Perl 6 Now -- in your browser!

[17:13] <TimToady> well, at the moment they seem to be the same, but it's certainly something that can be tweaked as we go along.

[17:13] <TimToady> ?eval (1,2,3).WHAT

[17:13] *** evalbot_r15232 is now known as evalbot_r15233

[17:13] <evalbot_r15233> ::Array

[17:13] <TimToady> ?eval WHAT(1,2,3)

[17:13] <evalbot_r15233> Error: No compatible subroutine found: "&WHAT"

[17:13] <TimToady> heh

[17:14] <rindolf> ?eval WHAT((1,2,3))

[17:14] <evalbot_r15233> ::Array

[17:14] <TimToady> ?eval WHAT (1,2,3)

[17:14] <evalbot_r15233> ::Array

[17:14] <TimToady> ?eval WHAT \(1,2,3)

[17:14] <evalbot_r15233> ::Val

[17:15] <TimToady> hmm, should be Capture

[17:15] <TimToady> WHAT :($a,$b,$c)

[17:16] <TimToady> ?eval WHAT :($a,$b,$c)

[17:16] <TimToady> dur

[17:16] <evalbot_r15233> ::Sig

[17:16] <[particle]> you are in a twisty maze of disgarded sigils, all alike

[17:16] *** Ricardo joined
[17:17] <TimToady> how significant

[17:18] <Ricardo> Hi everyone i have a question about unpack. I have read the documentation, i know how it works within PERL. But i got to get unpack working in a C# environment.

[17:18] <Ricardo> Does anyone know where i might be able to find more information on the internal workings of unpack

[17:19] <moritz> Ricardo: the source is publicly available ;)

[17:19] *** TimToady joined
[17:19] <Ricardo> :) im not a low level programmer

[17:19] *** devogon joined
[17:22] <svnbot6> r15234 | moritz++ | Mentioned wantarray() in Perl6::Perl5::Differences

[17:28] *** justatheory_ joined
[17:30] *** prism joined
[17:31] *** ruz joined
[17:32] *** bernhard joined
[17:33] *** amnesiac joined
[17:37] <[particle]> Ricardo: perhaps this link and others like it can get you on your way: http://www.thescripts.com/forum/thread127484.html

[17:37] <lambdabot> Title: C++ IO (or equivalency of perl's pack/unpack?) - C++

[17:40] *** Dr_Pi joined
[17:43] <rindolf> How do I get an account on feather?

[17:45] <[particle]> http://feather.perl6.nl/ -- "see the original announcement for details"

[17:45] <lambdabot> Title: Perl6 Community Development Server

[17:49] *** fglock joined
[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | kp6 - added t/01-sanity, edited to fit the kp6 grammar

[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | - added the sanity errors to TODO list

[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | - fixed control block pads, logical ops

[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | - added 'coro', 'hypotheticals' prototypes to docs/

[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | - roles

[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | - added 'does' and 'is' class traits

[17:56] <svnbot6> r15235 | fglock++ | - no longer uses Class::MOP

[17:57] *** xinming joined
[18:05] *** nipra joined
[18:15] *** wilx` joined
[18:25] *** GabrielVieira joined
[18:31] *** wilx` is now known as wilx

[18:38] *** trym_ joined
[18:55] *** jisom joined
[18:57] *** jisom joined
[19:01] <NewCoke_> (hiveminder) yet another site blocked by work. :|

[19:01] <NewCoke_> while looking at event models for perl6, be sure to peek at tcl's.

[19:03] <NewCoke_> (two reasons: if perl6 has something similar, I can be sure partcl eventually gets it, and I've always been happy with tcl's event handling. it JFW.)

[19:04] *** justatheory joined
[19:21] *** iblechbot joined
[19:21] <NewCoke_> hurm. the synopses don't really introduce "say", do they. just jump right in there.

[19:27] *** renormalist joined
[19:32] *** buetow joined
[19:38] <renormalist> Hi all! Can someone re-assign me my commit bit. I had one before the svn change. I'm "renormalist" on svn.

[19:38] <renormalist> please, of course :-)

[19:40] <TimToady> looking

[19:43] *** rindolf joined
[19:43] <TimToady> sent, assuming email address is the same...

[19:43] <TimToady> at webit

[19:43] <renormalist> k, looking

[19:46] <renormalist> nice, it works again, thank you

[19:46] <svnbot6> r15236 | renormalist++ | - just commit bit test, sorry for svn log spamming

[19:47] <rindolf> OK, finished checking out r15235 - now to compile pugs.

[19:48] <TimToady> you should check out r15236 now.  :)

[19:48] <rindolf> TimToady: OK.

[19:49] <rindolf> :-)

[19:49] <rindolf> r15236 | renormalist++ | - just commit bit test, sorry for svn log spamming

[19:50] *** bonesss joined
[19:51] <renormalist> Anyone using svk here on pugs?

[19:51] <svnbot6> r15237 | renormalist++ | - cleanup comments that mark perl6 related changes

[19:53] * moritz not

[19:56] <rindolf> In this presentation - http://www.szabgab.com/perl6.html - all the Perl 6 code samples don't have "use v6;" at the top. Is it a good idea to omit it?

[19:56] <lambdabot> Title: Perl6

[19:56] <Juerd> rindolf: Check thy mail

[19:56] * Juerd thinks it's a good idea to omit "use v6;"

[19:57] <Juerd> But not a bad idea to include it.

[19:57] <TimToady> for a presentation it's fine to omit it just to save room

[19:57] <rindolf> Juerd: OK, thanks.

[20:02] <rindolf> Juerd: ok, I logged in and changed my password.

[20:05] <Juerd> Note to feather users: feather will be subjected to password cracking attempts, next week.

[20:05] <Juerd> (This info is also in the motd)

[20:20] <moritz> during `make smoke-js` I get messages like this:

[20:20] <moritz> # runjs.pl  t/builtins/math/rounders.t

[20:20] <moritz> open2: exec of js failed at /mnt/ex/moritz/pugs/perl5/PIL2JS/lib/PIL2JS.pm line 167

[20:20] <shay> hello folks

[20:21] <shay> hey Juerd :)

[20:21] <shay> rindolf, shlomi

[20:21] <moritz> what's wrong? any ideas?

[20:21] <moritz> hey shay ;)

[20:21] <rindolf> Hi shay 

[20:21] <shay> moritz, hey there, what's up :)

[20:21] *** offby1 joined
[20:22] <offby1> is there an easy way to dump both the name of a variable, and its value?  I find myself doing      say "Foo:"; say Foo.yaml;   a lot.

[20:22] <moritz> shay: not much ;)

[20:22] <rindolf> offby1: using eval?

[20:23] <rindolf> Many of the pugs' tests fail on my system after I ran make.

[20:23] <moritz> rindolf: how many?

[20:24] <rindolf> moritz: I don't know, I haven't finished running all of them.

[20:24] <moritz> I just smoked and had 97.9% success

[20:25] <rindolf> moritz: I'm on Mandriva cooker.

[20:25] *** nwc10 joined
[20:25] <TimToady> ?eval my $foo = 123; say (:$foo.yaml)

[20:26] * moritz is on Debian etch

[20:26] *** evalbot_r15233 is now known as evalbot_r15237

[20:26] <evalbot_r15237> OUTPUT[--- !hs/Pair ␤- ␤  - !hs/VStr ␤    - foo␤  - !hs/VRef ␤    - !hs/IScalar ␤      - !hs/VInt ␤        - 123␤␤] Bool::True

[20:27] <TimToady> ?eval my $foo = 123; say (:$foo.perl)

[20:27] <evalbot_r15237> OUTPUT[("foo" => \123)␤] Bool::True

[20:27] <moritz> should sqrt() work on negative and complex numbers?

[20:28] <TimToady> ?eval my $foo = 123; say (:$foo)

[20:28] <evalbot_r15237> OUTPUT[foo	123␤] Bool::True

[20:28] <moritz> and if so, which of the complex roots should come out? 0 <= arg(sqrt($x)) <= pi?

[20:29] <TimToady> ?eval sqrt(-1)

[20:29] <evalbot_r15237> NaN

[20:29] <moritz> TimToady: that's why I'm asking ;)

[20:29] <TimToady> ?eval sqrt(-1+0i)

[20:29] <evalbot_r15237> 0.0 + 1.0i

[20:30] <moritz> ;)

[20:30] <TimToady> sqrt keeps its type the same, I think

[20:30] <moritz> ?eval my $i is Int = 3; sqrt($i)

[20:30] <nwc10> ?eval exp(2i * atan2(1,0))

[20:31] <evalbot_r15237> 1.7320508075688772

[20:31] <evalbot_r15237> Error: No compatible subroutine found: "&atan2"

[20:31] <nwc10> oh. where are all the maths functions? :-(

[20:31] *** Squern joined
[20:31] <moritz> nwc10: atan2 wants two arguemnts

[20:31] <moritz> no, i'm wrong, sorry

[20:31] <nwc10> I thought that I had given it two

[20:32] <nwc10> ?eval exp(2i * atan2(1.0,0.0))

[20:32] <evalbot_r15237> Error: No compatible subroutine found: "&atan2"

[20:34] <TimToady> sqrt(Int) autopromotes to sqrt(Num) by the usual Int->Num rules

[20:34] <TimToady> we haven't got autopromotion to Complex

[20:35] <TimToady> and I believe luqui argued against it for sqrt()

[20:35] <moritz> most users would be surprised if sqrt(-1) worked, yea

[20:42] <moritz> ?eval sqrt(-1i)

[20:42] <evalbot_r15237> 0.7071067811865476 + -0.7071067811865475i

[20:44] <TimToady> ?eval my $x = -1; sqrt($x.i)

[20:44] <evalbot_r15237> Error: No compatible subroutine found: "&i"

[20:44] <TimToady> hah

[20:44] <moritz> TimToady: should that work?

[20:44] <TimToady> yes

[20:44] <TimToady> ?eval my $x = -1; sqrt(($x)i)

[20:44] <TimToady> that shouldn't

[20:44] <evalbot_r15237> 0.7071067811865476 + -0.7071067811865475i

[20:45] <TimToady> er, should

[20:45] <moritz> I'm writing a few testcases for sqrt, so I can include that one

[20:45] <TimToady> ?eval my $x = 1; $x.++; say $x

[20:45] <evalbot_r15237> OUTPUT[2␤] Bool::True

[20:46] <TimToady> ?eval my $x = 1; $x.i; say $x

[20:46] <evalbot_r15237> Error: No compatible subroutine found: "&i"

[20:46] <TimToady> strange

[20:47] <TimToady> ?eval my $x = 1; $x.'i'; say $x

[20:47] <evalbot_r15237> Error: ␤Unexpected "'"␤expecting ".", "\187", ">>", "=", operator name, qualified identifier, variable name, "...", "--", "++", "i", array subscript, hash subscript or code subscript

[20:48] <TimToady> ?eval my $x = 1; $x>>i;

[20:48] <evalbot_r15237> Error: Hyper OP only works on lists

[20:50] *** offby1 left
[20:50] <moritz> TimToady: should sqrt(-1i) return (1-1i)/sqrt(2) or (-1+i)/sqrt(2)?

[20:51] <moritz> TimToady: both are valid solutions

[20:52] <moritz> TimToady: or should it just return any valid solution?

[20:53] <TimToady> I have no opinion on the subject, but maybe it returns both in list context, and then you can write any(sqrt(-1i))

[20:54] <moritz> hm

[20:55] <TimToady> or maybe that should be sqrts

[20:55] <TimToady> just to avoid surprising people in accidental list context

[20:56] <moritz> sounds like a good idea

[20:56] <TimToady> generalizes to any root/roots kind of call too.

[20:56] <rindolf> My test results are:

[20:56] <rindolf> Failed 41/670 test scripts, 93.88% okay. 195/16168 subtests failed, 98.79% okay.

[20:57] <TimToady> the plural form returns the list, and the user coerces to any, all, Set, whatever

[20:57] <moritz> TimToady: mathematicians will love you/us for that one ;)

[20:59] <TimToady> I've long since learned that my intuitions don't map well onto the intuitions of standard mathematicians... :/

[20:59] <svnbot6> r15238 | moritz++ | Added complex text cases to sqrt()

[20:59] <TimToady> feel free to update Functions with the plural version

[21:01] *** putter joined
[21:01] <putter>  

[21:01] <lambdabot> putter: You have 2 new messages. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read them.

[21:01] <moritz> roots(x) gives the two roots of x, and roots(x, n) all n-th roots x?

[21:01] <TimToady> roots(n) always gives all of them

[21:02] <moritz> right

[21:02] <TimToady> er, roots(n,x) rather

[21:03] <TimToady> I wonder if the 2.5th root of 2 returns 2.5 values...

[21:03] <moritz> and n mandatory?

[21:03] <TimToady> yes

[21:03] <TimToady> maybe the other way around

[21:04] <TimToady> $x.roots(3) is cube roots

[21:04] *** coke joined
[21:04] <coke> .

[21:04] <TimToady> 3.roots($x) is weird

[21:04] <TimToady> so put x first

[21:04] * coke is finding that irssi with multiple server connections doesn't deal well with network loss. :|

[21:04] <putter> @tell audreyt re "is it okay if we port project_planning/ into dev.pugscode.org?", certainly.

[21:04] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[21:04] *** coke is now known as NewCoke

[21:05] <NewCoke> any comment on my earlier "say" sends that I missed?

[21:05] <TimToady> someone should change the channel headline to point to project planning

[21:05] <TimToady> say is mentioned in IO

[21:05] <TimToady> and even refers to a slightly more correct print entry now.  :)

[21:06] <putter> audreyt: Could you outline your vision for the trac?

[21:06] <moritz> should say accept a filehandle just like print?

[21:06] <TimToady> yes

[21:06] *** mrossetti joined
[21:06] <NewCoke> TimToady: be nice if it was at least given a forward reference earlier... or is that something more for merlyn to worry about?

[21:07] <TimToady> it was forward referenced in one of the early apocalypses.  :)

[21:07] <NewCoke> (IO) er... which synopsis is that?

[21:07] <NewCoke> you need a horde of documentation daemons. =-)

[21:08] *** mrossetti left
[21:08] <TimToady> or make that one of the late apocalypses...

[21:09] <TimToady> dunno, it's called IO.pod in pugs

[21:09] <TimToady> S16, looks like

[21:09] <moritz> TimToady: so what should I write as  roots()'s signature? is there something like List<Num> ?

[21:10] *** ludan joined
[21:10] <NewCoke> S16? http://dev.perl.org/perl6/doc/synopsis.html shows no such beast. =-)

[21:10] <lambdabot> Title: Synopses - perl6

[21:10] * NewCoke checks to see if he has write access to that website...

[21:11] <TimToady> (in Num) method roots (Num $x: Int $n --> List of Num) {...}

[21:11] <TimToady> or some such

[21:12] <TimToady> oh, with an "is export" in there to get the roots($x,$n) form as well.

[21:12] <NewCoke> TimToady: Hurm. seems like the website has the .pod in there. Any idea if those are links to another repository? to me, they look like snapshots...

[21:12] <TimToady> otherwise people would always have to write roots($x: $n)

[21:12] <putter> audreyt: Having a wiki again would be nice.  I wonder if trac is quite the right one.  Vs say wikimedia.  Trac has gotchas, like irreversible "delete page", can't rename pages, ah well.  Has some nice things too.  I'm just not sure how usable the wiki side is.

[21:13] <TimToady> or how 'bout leave out sqrts and just have roots default $n to 2?

[21:13] <TimToady> maybe not.

[21:13] <moritz> TimToady: that's not "least surprise" ;)

[21:14] <TimToady> yeah

[21:14] <NewCoke> wiki: there's the wiki that parrot's using. I'm sure andy'd let you use that one.

[21:15] <TimToady> someone should write a wiki in Perl 6 named "viki"

[21:15] <svnbot6> r15239 | moritz++ | Added spec for roots($x, $n)

[21:16] <NewCoke> that's werry funny.

[21:16] <diotalevi> Because it'd have less 'v'?

[21:16] <diotalevi> vviki -> wiki - v.

[21:16] <TimToady> and then write a sane vi syntax and call in 'vik'

[21:16] <diotalevi> er.

[21:16] <TimToady> then we could all be vikings

[21:17] <NewCoke> ah. the update script in the doc directory you mentioned doesn't take care of IO. =-)

[21:17] <TimToady> perl vi

[21:17] <nwc10> it's discrimination against emacs users, I tell you.

[21:17] <nwc10> there will be a perl emacs fork if we're not careful :-)

[21:17] <putter> audreyt: re encoding the graph in tickets, the graph really ended up merely an illustrative sketch.  Even with more powerful graphing tools than graphviz, I couldn't show real dependencies and tasks.  Just don't have the tool set for the dynamic richness of anarchistic flooding development. ;)

[21:17] <TimToady> perl evacs

[21:17] <TimToady> or eviks

[21:17] <moritz> nwc10: emacs users have lisp ;)

[21:18] <TimToady> Perl 6 is just another dialect of Lisp

[21:18] <diotalevi> evacs - e is a heating and ventilation system?

[21:18] <TimToady> someone needs to write an elisp-to-plisp translator.  :)

[21:18] <moritz> TimToady: that's worth a `fortune'-Line ;)

[21:18] <diotalevi> plisp?

[21:19] <TimToady> yeah, with a file extension of .pl

[21:20] <NewCoke> so, anyone want to make sure all the SYN end up on the dev.perl.org site? Or should I open a ticket and force Robrt to do it? =-)

[21:20] * diotalevi complains that elisp doesn't have closures or lexical variables (unless you also load the cl common lisp package).

[21:20] *** Aankhen`` joined
[21:20] <moritz> NewCoke: where are they now?

[21:20] <moritz> NewCoke: and where in the repository is dev.perl.org?

[21:21] <NewCoke> I don't know where they all live now.

[21:21] <TimToady> a more up-to-date location is http://perlcabal.org/syn/?

[21:21] <lambdabot> Title: Official Perl 6 Documentation

[21:21] <NewCoke> I was thinking dev.perl.org was canonical, which it ain't. =-)

[21:21] <TimToady> maybe dev.perl.org should just point to something that easier to update

[21:22] <NewCoke> TimToady: do you see an issue with redirecting dev.perl.org/ users there?

[21:22] <Khisanth> I thought Perl was good for automating stuff :P

[21:22] <NewCoke> ... ok. that I think I have rights to do.

[21:23] <TimToady> only potential turf issues, which are always so easy to solve...  :)

[21:25] <TimToady> bbl &

[21:25] <putter> TimToady: What is the state of the STD regex section?

[21:25] <TimToady> um, untested

[21:26] <putter> extend of coverage? 

[21:26] <putter> (work in progress, thought to be fairly complete, etc)

[21:26] <TimToady> mostly complete syntactically, I think, but depends on things that aren't implemented in pugs

[21:26] <putter> np

[21:26] <TimToady> like multi rules

[21:26] <putter> thanks

[21:26] *** dduncan joined
[21:26] <putter> oh, hmm, multi rules

[21:27] <putter> ok, thanks

[21:27] <TimToady> &

[21:27] <putter> ohhh, those multi rules, np

[21:27] <putter> bye

[21:28] <putter> &

[21:32] <renormalist> I haven't seen an entry on pugs.blogs.com from audrey for a long time. Is she ok? I could only loosely follow pugs so I'm not best informed about the progress and read pugs.blogs.com for first time in weeks.

[21:35] <Khisanth> she was chatting about stuff this morning :)

[21:35] <NewCoke> she's only got half her free time allocated to pugs atm, as I recall.

[21:36] <NewCoke> ... but that was up from 0.

[21:41] <shay|p6> folks, is someone working on testing Perl6 on NetBSD and/or sparc64?

[21:41] <shay|p6> I got a Sun Ultra10 and I'd like to test and report bugs from it, but I want to make sure that I don't reinvent the wheel :)

[21:42] <[particle]> check http://smoke.pugscode.org

[21:43] <shay|p6> I will

[21:48] *** cjeris joined
[21:58] <tene> Hmm... the BSD::Resource stuff in evalbot doesn't seem to protect against "fork while fork'

[22:00] <TimToady> that part is enforced by Dutch Goons.

[22:01] <Khisanth> in wooden shoes?

[22:02] <TimToady> the concrete shoes are for you.

[22:05] <shay|p6> can you guys give me pointers to stuff I should try other than running the Pugs tests/smoke? other testing resources? maybe BSD/sparc specific?

[22:06] <shay|p6> I'm sorry that I'm bugging with questions, but I'm not experienced with programming languages internals and I'm seeking for a start, I think that a rare architecure/system mix can be a good one

[22:08] <[particle]> shay: you want to be a platform porter for pugs on your shiny new box, and don't know where to start? is that right?

[22:09] <shay|p6> [particle]: that might be a way for saying part of the idea, yes :)

[22:09] <[particle]> you'll need to get ghc to compile before you can compile pugs

[22:09] *** Psyche^ joined
[22:10] <shay|p6> I guess that it's the Haskell compiler, right?

[22:10] <[particle]> yes

[22:10] <shay|p6> I'll check documentation for building it

[22:10] <[particle]> i'd love it if you could try building parrot, too

[22:11] * shay|p6 writes down on his todo list

[22:11] <shay|p6> I hope that I'll be able to give you results before Sunday

[22:12] <[particle]> there's a wider audience on the mailing lists than on irc.

[22:12] <shay|p6> I'm registred to..

[22:12] <shay|p6> sec

[22:12] <shay|p6> perl6-announce, perl6-language, perl6-users and perl6-compiler

[22:13] <shay|p6> any other important list that I should be registered on?

[22:13] <[particle]> perl6-internals is the parrot list

[22:13] <shay|p6> subscribin

[22:14] <shay|p6> g

[22:14] <[particle]> perl6-compiler has both parrot and pugs related info

[22:14] <[particle]> shay|p6++ for enthusiasm and initiative

[22:16] <TimToady> indeed

[22:16] *** mr_ank_ joined
[22:16] <TimToady> have you got a pugs commit bit yet?

[22:17] <shay|p6> me?

[22:18] <TimToady> well, I know [particle] has one...

[22:18] <shay|p6> no, I don't

[22:18] <shay|p6> didn't had nothing to commit yet

[22:18] <TimToady> if you send an email address to me, I can send you a commit bit

[22:18] <TimToady> portability fixes are certainly welcome

[22:19] <TimToady> and you'll probably want to make your first commit when everyone here is off in a hotsprings or some such...

[22:19] <shay|p6> sent you an e-mail address in /msg

[22:19] <TimToady> what do you want for your nickname?

[22:19] <shay|p6> shay would be ok :)

[22:20] * [particle] remembers the pohoiki warm springs fondly

[22:20] <TimToady> sent

[22:20] <TimToady> it's customary to add your name to AUTHORS as your first commit to see if it works.

[22:21] <TimToady> so you *do* have something to commit.  :)

[22:21] <shay|p6> awesome, thanks a lot :)

[22:22] <TimToady> np

[22:22] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[22:38] *** reZo_ joined
[22:39] *** Aankh|Clone joined
[22:40] <audreyt> @tell putter clicking on "Admin" displays a "wikirename" page; I've blocked irreversible deletes

[22:40] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[22:45] <nothingmuch> @tell audreyt moose!

[22:45] <svnbot6> r15240 | moritz++ | Added test file for roots() (complex roots)

[22:45] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[22:46] * nothingmuch is in a silly oh-dear-god-i-really-should-be-packing mood

[22:46] <audreyt> moose!

[22:46] <lambdabot> audreyt: You have 11 new messages. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read them.

[22:49] *** cjeris left
[22:50] <gaal> nothingmuch: moose!

[22:50] <nothingmuch> yo yo yo homie yo

[22:51] <gaal> what hour's your flight?

[22:51] <nothingmuch> 11:30

[22:51] <gaal> am?

[22:51] <nothingmuch> si

[22:51] <nothingmuch> pm would be23

[22:51] <nothingmuch> the situation is not so grim though

[22:52] <gaal> thou needs must pack

[22:52] <nothingmuch> i'm almost done finding the stuff i should be packing ;-)

[22:52] <nothingmuch> that usually takes me the longesy

[22:52] <nothingmuch> *longest

[22:53] *** pdcawley joined
[22:53] <gaal> don't forget reservation #s, passport, and credit card. the rest is recommended. :)

[22:54] <gaal> have fun and don't die! moose.

[22:54] <gaal> z&

[22:54] <gaal> nothingmuch: try { all that stuff }

[22:54] * nothingmuch will try extra hard

[22:54] <nothingmuch> i already have the most important thing

[22:55] <nothingmuch> (1kg of turkish coffee)

[22:55] <gaal> haha. ++

[22:55] <gaal> re-z&

[22:55] <nothingmuch> ciao ciao

[22:55] <nothingmuch> btw

[22:55] <shay|p6> layla tov gaal

[22:55] <nothingmuch> if you have friends looking to offload furniture please drop amir a line

[22:55] <nothingmuch> furniture and/or appliances

[22:56] <gaal> will do. shay|p6: layla tov

[22:56] <gaal> re-re-z&

[22:56] <nothingmuch> oh and one last thing, gaal

[22:56] <nothingmuch> (/me wants to get a re-re-re-z, to see if it becomes re^3-z

[22:56] <shay|p6> yeah, why should we let him sleep

[22:57] <nothingmuch> he's being serious about sleep =(

[22:57] <TimToady> 'sides, it's already tomorrow for the important people like audreyt

[22:57] * nothingmuch feels important, since it's 00:57

[22:58] <shay|p6> well, here is Feb 02 already if that counts

[22:58] <shay|p6> nm, are you from Israel too?

[22:58] <nothingmuch> si si

[22:58] <nothingmuch> currently residing near beer sheva

[22:58] <shay|p6> y hablas espaol tambin? ;)

[22:58] <nothingmuch> but me and my BFFL just signed a contract on a shiny old flat in T.A.

[22:58] <nothingmuch> no i don't parle vouz spanish at all ;-)

[22:58] *** Limbic_Region joined
[22:59] <shay|p6> mazal tov

[22:59] <nothingmuch> i can say esteban

[22:59] <nothingmuch> (my boss's name)

[22:59] <shay|p6> I'm from jerusalem

[22:59] <nothingmuch> and I can type things like señora

[22:59] <nothingmuch> jerusalem is awesome

[22:59] <shay|p6> jerusalem is teh placer

[22:59] <shay|p6> -r

[22:59] * nothingmuch is sort of settling for T.A., but as long as it isn't beer sheva i'm happy ;-

[22:59] <nothingmuch> )

[22:59] <nothingmuch> friends are more important than cities though

[22:59] <shay|p6> yeah, I don't like BS too much neither

[23:00] <shay|p6> see, most of my service was in the south

[23:00] <shay|p6> so, no matter what, you must go over BS without any good memories behind it :)

[23:02] <nothingmuch> anymoose, i have to sleep

[23:02] <nothingmuch> err, pack

[23:02] <nothingmuch> flight tomorrow morning =)

[23:03] <shay|p6> g'nite, where are you traveling to?

[23:03] <nothingmuch> step 1 is to work at my boss's house

[23:03] <nothingmuch> step 2 is to die (err, not die, sorry gaal) in the snow

[23:04] <gaal> if yer so smart why don't you reverse the order huh? that way you don't have to work

[23:05] <gaal> re-etc. &

[23:05] <shay|p6> I knew he was spying.

[23:05] <gaal> no privacy these days.

[23:05] <shay|p6> you bet

[23:08] <gaal> Oh, what sad times are these when passing ruffians can say "moose" at will to old ladies.

[23:09] <shay|p6> do you have insomnia or something?

[23:09] <gaal> no, but this chair's so warm and cozy.

[23:09] *** Aankh|Clone is now known as Aankhen``

[23:10] <gaal> however! we shall overcome. zzZZZ(!) &

[23:10] <shay|p6> lets start the bets on how many time will it take for gaal to type again

[23:15] <lumi> 10 credits on 6 hours

[23:16] <shay|p6> no way, he's still spying

[23:16] <Limbic_Region> @tell audreyt see http://use.perl.org/~jjore/journal/32362 regarding STM and some *apparent* negative press

[23:16] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[23:16] <lumi> 10 credits on 6 minutes, then

[23:16] <Limbic_Region> oh, gaal - you might be interested in that too

[23:16] <shay|p6> 5 credits on less than 30 minutes

[23:21] *** Aankhen`` joined
[23:21] *** larsen_ joined
[23:27] <svnbot6> r15241 | shay++ | Added myself to try the SVN :-)

[23:28] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: heya :)

[23:28] <lambdabot> audreyt: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[23:28] <audreyt> lambdabot: @moosages

[23:28] <lambdabot> Limbic_Region said 11m 47s ago: see http://use.perl.org/~jjore/journal/32362 regarding STM and some *apparent* negative press

[23:29] * allbery_b rolls his eyes

[23:29] <audreyt> Limbic_Region: well, the point is valid, that share-everything has drawbacks

[23:30] <audreyt> STM fixes the drawbacks to a degree but still if you can design the code to share nothing, the better

[23:30] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - didn't read it, just saw that diotalevi was asking TimToady about it at PerlMonks and then saw his use.perl entry

[23:30] <Limbic_Region> though I would pass it on

[23:30] <allbery_b> he's right, share-nothing is ideal.  so's world peace.  both are about equally likely...

[23:30] <audreyt> not really sensational :)

[23:30] <Limbic_Region> out of curiosity, anyone have Solaris 9 or 10 handy?

[23:31] <allbery_b> both

[23:31] <allbery_b> (9/sparc 10/x86)

[23:31] <allbery_b> ...but pugs on neither, nor likely

[23:31] <Limbic_Region> allbery_b - can you try: use Fcntl ':flock'; open(my $fh, '<', $0) or die $!; flock($fh, LOCK_EX | LOCK_NB) or die $!; print 'made it';

[23:31] <Limbic_Region> this is perl 5 question

[23:32] * Limbic_Region isn't sure if it is a platform or a perl issue (I had the default perl which is 5.6.1 I believe)

[23:32] <Limbic_Region> audreyt - are you up early or haven't been to sleep yet?

[23:34] <allbery_b> sol9 prints "made it"

[23:34] <Limbic_Region> interesting - I got bad file descriptor

[23:35] <allbery_b> sol10 x86 "Bad fle descriptor"

[23:35] <allbery_b> er, Bad file number

[23:35] <Limbic_Region> right

[23:35] <Limbic_Region> ok - so what is the perl -v of each?

[23:35] <allbery_b> 5.8.3 on sol9, 5.8..4 on sol10

[23:36] *** stephang joined
[23:38] <Limbic_Region> ok, so perhaps it is a platform thing cause I think I had 10 when it failed

[23:38] <allbery_b> at a guess, flock may be emulated with fcntl on sol10 --- although the error seems a little odd in that case, but maybe it's correct too

[23:38] <allbery_b> (fcntl you can

[23:39] <allbery_b> t lock exclusive if you open for read)

[23:39] <diotalevi> allbery_b: I don't have a dog in this horse race. I'm pondering how to use STM badly and how to use it well and what new kinds of problems having it around means. I'm pretty ignorant on the subject right now.

[23:39] <audreyt> diotalevi: replied

[23:39] <Limbic_Region> allbery_b - it is a MJD trick to make sure you only have one copy of a program running at a time (exclusive lock on the program itself)

[23:40] <Limbic_Region> allbery_b - it works fine if you flock something other than $0

[23:40] <Limbic_Region> allbery - in any case, I worked around it

[23:40] <allbery_b> ah

[23:40] <Limbic_Region> 3333......

[23:40] <allbery_b> hm

[23:40] * allbery_b wonders what $0 is

[23:40] <Limbic_Region> my daughter says hello

[23:40] <allbery_b> /dev/fds/mumble?

[23:41] <diotalevi> saw that, audreyt. I'm looking to get a copy of CTM now since that has PR saying it covers lots of this stuff.

[23:41] <audreyt> diotalevi: "just because your RDBMS has row-level locking, it doesn't mean you want to put all data into one single table"

[23:41] <audreyt> that's essentialy patricklogan's argument

[23:41] <audreyt> which is valid.

[23:41] <allbery_b> nope

[23:41] <allbery_b> interesting

[23:41] <audreyt> but rowlevellocking is useful.

[23:41] <audreyt> bbiab

[23:42] <audreyt> ("row-level locking encapsulated in SQL transactions" is analagous to STM.)

[23:43] *** stephang is now known as sgt

[23:43] *** sgt is now known as stephang

[23:44] <diotalevi> So, fair enough. It seems fairly uncontroversial as far as databases as big external global variables go. I'd recently learned some Mozart/Oz to get at their constraint solving libraries and found it had builtin data flow concurrency which I'm told is similar to whatver it is that Erlang does.

[23:48] <TimToady> stephang: if you use #cbstream you can keep an eye on the chatterbox at the same time.  :)

[23:49] <stephang> ok thanks

[23:49] *** polettix joined
[23:50] *** ashelyb_ joined
[23:51] <Limbic_Region> ++

[23:51] <Limbic_Region> +

[23:51] <diotalevi> Also, Mozart/Oz was *really* only of interest because it has constraints as a feature that's very close to the standard syntax so the intention is that it's trivial to say "ok, now this next bit I want the constraint solver to deal with" instead of having to actually go code all the foreach/prune code that'd be normal in perl or whatever.

[23:51] <Limbic_Region> Jasmine wanted to karma someone apparently

[23:51] <Limbic_Region> ;-)

