[00:02] *** agjal is now known as meppel

[00:02] <enigmus> Pugs::Compiler::Perl6 is required at that line 65, so I try to install that, then Pugs::Compiler::Regex was missing, try by hand through cpan. Then Slurp was missing, so I did that by hand, but when I try to reinstall the previous package, Slurp is still not found. Am I doing something wrong? Why aren't all these packages installed automatically as dependencies?

[00:06] *** theorb joined
[00:09] *** Alias_ joined
[00:14] *** chris2 left
[00:18] *** theorbtwo left
[00:34] *** ask_ left
[00:34] *** ask_ joined
[00:38] *** jisom joined
[00:45] *** justatheory left
[00:50] *** larsen_ left
[00:56] *** jhorwitz left
[00:59] *** BinGOs_ joined
[01:00] *** polettix left
[01:04] *** BinGOs left
[01:05] *** kanru left
[01:13] *** devogon_ left
[01:20] *** justatheory joined
[01:29] <meppel> good night

[01:30] *** meppel left
[01:56] *** lisppaste3 left
[01:58] *** justatheory left
[02:04] *** lisppaste3 joined
[02:30] *** ask_ left
[02:56] *** f0rth left
[02:56] *** f0rth joined
[02:57] *** mtve left
[03:02] *** BinGOs_ left
[03:02] *** jisom left
[03:03] *** BinGOs joined
[03:04] *** dduncan joined
[03:08] *** BinGOs left
[03:11] *** dduncan left
[03:57] *** jisom joined
[04:05] *** Limbic_Region left
[04:08] *** penk joined
[04:25] *** nekobaka joined
[04:25] *** nekobaka left
[04:32] *** tsilence joined
[04:33] <tsilence> is it true that a first pre-beta version of perl6 will be released this week?

[04:34] <awwaiid> depends on what you consider perl6, probably. and what you consider release.

[04:34] <awwaiid> possibly what you consider "pre-beta"

[04:35] <tsilence> but will anything be released at all? :D

[04:35] <Tene> tsilence: parrot had a nice release a few days ago.

[04:36] <tsilence> Tene: that's all for this year, that's what you mean, right?

[04:37] *** enigmus_ joined
[04:37] <Tene> Oh, right, Christmas.

[04:38] <tsilence> Tene: this is the comment i am talking about: "According to someone I work with, who is part of perl6, they are expecting a real release sometime next week."

[04:38] <Tene> tsilence: yes, unfortunately.  Parrot plans to have a 1.0 release next November, if I'm remembering the roadmap correctly, and they've been very good about meeting milestones on time so far.

[04:38] <tsilence> Tene: do you think it's based on a confusion around this typical joke?

[04:38] <tsilence> http://www.osnews.com/comment.php?news_id=19075

[04:38] <lambdabot> Title: OSNews.com

[04:38] <tsilence> 2007-12-22 16:52:04 UTC in reply to "Perl 6?"

[04:38] <Tene> tsilence: yes, probably.

[04:38] <tsilence> of course, this is just a forum comment!

[04:39] <Alias_> tsilence: There's been rumblings of the POSSIBILITY of packing up "something" as a single executable and calling it a Perl 6 Alpha

[04:39] <tsilence> Alias_: wow, cool

[04:39] <Alias_> We have enough pieces working now that we're hitting the tipping point where that is at least possible

[04:39] <Alias_> But of the few people capable of doing it, I'm not aware of any actually doing so

[04:41] *** enigmus left
[04:42] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[04:45] <tsilence> Alias_: some release at all can only be useful

[04:45] <tsilence> Alias_: don't you think so?

[04:50] *** alc joined
[04:52] <Alias_> Well, it needs to hit SOME threshhold of usefulness

[04:52] <tsilence> Alias_: i know.. but still

[04:53] <Alias_> And progress on the stuff that would be included is moving very quickly

[04:53] <tsilence> ah, that's cool

[04:53] <Alias_> So I imagine once the basics are in place, there'd be an ideal time to build it

[04:53] *** amnesiac joined
[04:54] <tsilence> until not long ago i was still feeling perl6 was too much of a change to become possible anytime soon

[04:54] <tsilence> now i am regaining hope

[04:54] <tsilence> :)

[04:56] <Alias_> Well, there's been a few low points

[04:56] <Alias_> The first was before audreyt++ created pugs

[04:56] <Alias_> And the second was before Parrot 0.5 (imo anyways)

[04:56] <tsilence> btw, pugs seems to be stagnating

[04:57] <Alias_> Well, in the larger scheme of things, I'm not even sure if it's MEANT to survive the release of Perl 6

[04:57] <Alias_> Certainly the test suite from pugs is now the test suite for the main release

[04:57] <Alias_> And it's served it's role of trying out Perl 6 "for real" very well

[04:58] <tsilence> right

[04:58] <Alias_> Provided feedback to Larry on language issues etc

[05:02] <tsilence> you mean you don't think it's meant to survive the release of *any* perl6?

[05:03] <Alias_> I mean that once the official version of perl 6 is done, the focus on it will most likely be greatly reduced

[05:03] <Alias_> Then again, Perl 6 is meant to have multiple implementations...

[05:03] <tsilence> Alias_: but why isn't this obvious, why do you say "i am not sure"?

[05:03] <tsilence> Alias_: oh, i see

[05:03] <Alias_> Because I'm not a Perl 6 insider :)

[05:03] <Alias_> I just know people and stuff

[05:03] <tsilence> Alias_: so it is not considered to be a test implementation only

[05:04] <Alias_> Well, insomuch as having a working version of what is in Larry's head for testing purposes, it's  a test implementation

[05:04] <tsilence> Alias_: well, i meant it the other way around, but i see (your answer works either way anyway) :)

[05:04] <Alias_> Who's to say what end it will eventually be put

[05:07] <tsilence> why those low points? what produced the pessimism?

[05:07] <Alias_> lack of visible forward progress, or actual forward progress

[05:07] <jql> the inability of outside contributors to participate

[05:07] <Alias_> And that too

[05:08] <jql> what exactly was the peanut gallery supposed to do to help before pugs?

[05:08] <jql> I threw popcorn at @larry, but that got boring quick

[05:08] <Alias_> They yammered in the language channel and read summaries about parrot minutia

[05:09] <Alias_> As for the more recent of the two, pugs was kinda stagnating a bit, both from audreyt being sick, and because it was sending tentacles out in every direction without really helping the main trunk

[05:09] <tsilence> jql: why the inability of outside contributors to participate?

[05:10] <Alias_> tsilence: If you can't actually execute code, what's left to do

[05:10] <jql> most contributors just write code

[05:10] <Alias_> You can talk about stuff endlessly, but nobody can actually TRY anything

[05:10] <tsilence> Alias_: heh

[05:11] <jql> running a "mental" compiler and analyzing the language that way is a project for a CS class, not an open-source project.

[05:11] <Alias_> Perl/CPAN has a strong "People that do not contribute, do not count" culture

[05:11] <Alias_> People WANT to code

[05:12] <tsilence> jql: oh, i misinterpreted your "inability" as referring to their being somehow restricted access

[05:12] <Alias_> Restricted due to responsibility contention

[05:12] <jql> no. as audrey glaringly pointed out, anyone can pick up the torch and run with it

[05:12] <tsilence> Alias_: aha, so that too

[05:12] <Alias_> Only a few people can hack the parrot internals before it gets messy

[05:12] <tsilence> right

[05:13] <Alias_> But then again, not that many people CAN hack the parrot internals

[05:13] <Alias_> That leaves all the rest of us mere mortals out of the loop

[05:13] <tsilence> it's understandable

[05:13] <[particle]> really, how many folks are interested in writing a virtual machine?

[05:13] <Alias_> Pugs let the unwashed masses have something to do

[05:14] <Alias_> Like writing what could be the production test suite for Perl 6 (plus actually trying P6 for real, and doing crazy shit with haskell and javascript)

[05:14] <jql> <-- unwashed illiterate serf

[05:14] <Alias_> <-- doesn't even do stuff below the language surface :)

[05:14] <[particle]> <-- parrot illuminati

[05:14] <jql> <-- somewhat responsible for ??!!

[05:14] * Alias_ is but a mere toolchain weeny in comparison to the illuminati

[05:14] <tsilence> [particle]: so you're a contributor to parrot?

[05:14] <[particle]> i am

[05:14] * jql accepts the blame

[05:15] <[particle]> ??!!++

[05:15] <tsilence> [particle]: what will/can make it so special, really?

[05:15] <Auzon> <-- wants to help

[05:16] <[particle]> parrot's a virtual machine designed to support dynamic languages like perl 6

[05:16] <[particle]> it's taken us a while to get where we are because this is cutting edge, and *hard*

[05:17] <tsilence> [particle]: what is cutting edge, the fact that it supports dynamic languages?

[05:17] <[particle]> so, microsoft and sun have been putting efforts into catching up with us

[05:17] <[particle]> and we're trying to catch up with them

[05:17] <Alias_> tsilence: That it supports them as first class citizens without crippling them, yes

[05:17] <[particle]> much of the parrot architecture hasn't been done to target real world languages

[05:18] <tsilence> Alias_: will it support python, btw?

[05:18] <[particle]> for instance, unification of events and threads into one syntem

[05:18] <[particle]> *system

[05:18] <Alias_> I believe there's a python compiler in there already, at some level of usefulness

[05:18] <[particle]> parrot will support javascript, python, ruby, perl, tcl, etc

[05:18] <Alias_> Not sure what state it's in

[05:18] <tsilence> [particle]: you mean as in "hasn't yet"?

[05:19] <jql> javascript. now there's a language I wanna see on parrot

[05:19] <tsilence> [particle]: any idea about the size it will have (in mbs)?

[05:19] <[particle]> there is no high-level language running on top of parrot that can be seen as complete, because parrot is incomplete

[05:19] <Alias_> particle: You just need to find a language that doesn't have any of the features that parrot doesn't have yet :)

[05:19] <Alias_> Surely the bf language could be made relatively complete

[05:19] <[particle]> tsilence: the size of the vm? i don't know, really. my main focus has been completeness and correctness. optimization follows

[05:20] <[particle]> well, i worked hard to get perl 1 passing some tests over the last few weeks

[05:20] <Khisanth> Alias_: and who would be using bf as their language of choice? :)

[05:20] <Alias_> Khisanth: You missed a great talk at YAPC::AU

[05:20] <[particle]> ooh, yeah, bf is running on parrot, so is hq9+

[05:21] <Tene> Alias_: parrot has an hq9+ implementation. ;)

[05:21] <Tene> ETOOLATE

[05:21] <Alias_> See, there ya go

[05:21] <[particle]> :D

[05:21] <Auzon> bye

[05:21] <Khisanth> hrm I thought it had BASIC as well

[05:21] <[particle]> the parrot compiler toolkit is *awesome*. it makes writing compilers so easy

[05:21] <Alias_> Could that be considered complete though?

[05:21] <jql> lolparrot?

[05:21] <[particle]> no more lex/yacc garbage

[05:22] <[particle]> i expect lolparrot to be complete before april 1 :)

[05:22] <jql> very necessary. :)

[05:22] <tsilence> are any ruby or python guys contributing to parrot?

[05:22] <Tene> Hmm.  Anyone currently working on lolparrot?

[05:22] <Auzon> What's lolparrot?

[05:22] <jql> lolcode for parrot

[05:22] <Auzon> Ah

[05:22] <[particle]> yes, at times. there was a lull in contributions while we got our new object model and compiler toolkit in place

[05:22] <jql> I CAN HAZ STDIO?

[05:23] <jql> err, s/^I// apparently

[05:23] <[particle]> tsilence: now that that's up and working, we're actively hacking on perl6, and adding new things all the time

[05:23] <Alias_> PRINTER CAT SAYZ HELLO WROLD!!!

[05:23] <[particle]> i hope soon to branch out and help the ruby/js folks get their implementations converted to the new tools, and extend those implementations

[05:23] <Alias_> particle: Do you have a Perl::Dist-like compiler toolchain for building a "dist" ?

[05:24] <tsilence> are any ruby or python guys contributing to parrot? and, if not, why not? i mean, isn't it in their best interest?

[05:24] <[particle]> alias_: like, a perl6 exe?

[05:24] <Alias_> particle: Right

[05:25] <[particle]> alias_: we're working on it. chromatic and i have a small piece (30 lines?) of c code that will take parrot bytecode and make it into a native exe

[05:25] <[particle]> so, we just need to be able to find all the bytecode files that should be in a specific dist, merge them, and package it up

[05:25] <Alias_> ok

[05:25] <Alias_> Might I recommend doing it Perl::Dist-style though

[05:25] <[particle]> i'll take a look at perl::dist, i'm not familiar

[05:26] <Alias_> Perl::Dist is the toolkit we use to build Vanilla/Strawberry Perl

[05:26] <[particle]> ah, excellent.

[05:26] <Alias_> > perldist Perl::Dist::Strawberry "file://c|/minicpan/"

[05:26] <lambdabot>  Parse error at "::Str..." (column 20)

[05:26] <Alias_> 1.5 hours later an .exe installer pops out

[05:26] <[particle]> i've got to test strawberry 5.10 with parrot. i couldn't build parrot on strawberry 5.8.8

[05:27] <Alias_> If you hit trouble let me know

[05:27] <[particle]> roger, wilco

[05:27] <tsilence> i've just read about lolcode. never heard of it. it's really funny!!

[05:27] <Alias_> After the new year I'll probably have recovered from the last 1-2 weeks 

[05:27] <Alias_> And be able to think about coding on Perl::Dist again

[05:28] <[particle]> we're looking for folks to help us write the perl6 compiler. patrick michaud and i should soon be writing more docs, tutorials, and articles to get folks started

[05:28] <Alias_> I'm mostly interested in the toolchain/6CPAN side of it

[05:28] <Alias_> I really couldn't be bothered dealing with the language itself :)

[05:28] <[particle]> well, i'd love to see a perl6 distribution

[05:29] <Alias_> I'd be happy to make one

[05:29] <[particle]> ok, then we need to talk. 

[05:29] <Alias_> The CPAN crew have been ready for years to start hacking on the 6CPAN, but nobody has any real idea wtf the language is gunna be like to work with

[05:29] <Alias_> So all we have is various specs that in my opinion all suck

[05:30] *** jferrero left
[05:30] <[particle]> written in p6?

[05:30] <Alias_> Well, as I understand it, the big difference will be the need to deal with multiple languages

[05:30] <[particle]> yes, indeed

[05:30] <Alias_> There's a myriad of issues that introduces

[05:31] <Alias_> And I'm sure myself, Schwern, rjbs have stuff in our heads how that might happen

[05:31] <Alias_> But we need something we can touch

[05:31] <Alias_> And experiment

[05:31] <[particle]> hope you can get together this conference season

[05:31] <Alias_> I plan to do both the big northern ones if I can

[05:31] <[particle]> the db schema is pretty central to 6cpan

[05:32] <[particle]> otherwise lookups could take infinity

[05:32] <Alias_> I'd say we're still back at conceptual phase

[05:32] *** faxathisia joined
[05:32] <Alias_> I should note I'm also involved in a CCAN atm :)

[05:32] <Alias_> CPAN for C, with Rusty Russel and friends

[05:32] <[particle]> really? didn't know that

[05:32] <Alias_> It's less than 3 weeks old, even conceptually

[05:33] <Alias_> We shared breakfast a couple of mornings at YAPC::AU

[05:33] <[particle]> get llvm's bits hosted there

[05:33] <Alias_> llvm?

[05:33] <[particle]> it's a virtual machine

[05:33] <[particle]> we'd like to steal their jit

[05:34] <[particle]> it'd be nice if it were packaged in a standard repo somewhere :)

[05:34] <Alias_> Well, CCAN is also at the stage of working out what exactly a "package" means and such

[05:34] <Alias_> There's language specific issues

[05:34] <Alias_> I imagine 6PAN is going to have issues with bootstrapping for example

[05:35] <Alias_> Especially with muoltiple languages around

[05:35] <[particle]> sure, each with a different idea of package, and a different install method

[05:36] <[particle]> i'd hate to see the configure process for 6pan

[05:37] <[particle]> do you have every tool imaginable? let's bring out the giant probe and see....

[05:37] * Alias_ shrugs

[05:38] <Alias_> So yeah, there's $stuff that needs to be worked out

[05:38] <Alias_> Not to mention dealing with multiple language communities...

[05:38] <Alias_> Python should be fun...

[05:39] <Alias_> "Hi Python guys, we'd like you to totally change your distro packaging"

[05:39] <Alias_> Anyways, this is why we need something tangible :)

[05:39] <Alias_> We have a whole nother set of $hard problems once you guys solve YOUR $hard problems

[05:40] <[particle]> sure. and be on the lookout for gpan. once google gets wind of what you're doing...

[05:40] <Alias_> meh

[05:40] <Alias_> CPAN's require consultation with communities

[05:40] <Alias_> Google is too insulated in my opinion

[05:40] <[particle]> they do own guido

[05:41] <Alias_> point

[05:41] <Alias_> And they added the release manager this year too

[05:42] <[particle]> so it begins.

[05:43] <[particle]> anyway, you've found good solutions to hard problems before. i have faith.

[05:43] <[particle]> and i'll make sure parrot doesn't totally suck

[05:43] <[particle]> (best i can)

[05:43] <tsilence> Alias_: do you think the pythoners will accept it?

[05:44] * [particle] heads to bed

[05:44] <[particle]> night all!

[05:45] <Alias_> tsilence: The Pythonistas have a religious aversion to anything Perl

[05:46] <Alias_> tsilence: It will probably come down to battling network effects at ten paces

[05:49] <Alias_> If the 6PAN has some absolutely killer functionality, and adoption rates rise enough, Python will have no choice but to adopt it 

[05:49] <Alias_> In which case, I win

[05:49] <Alias_> :)

[05:50] <Alias_> (Assuming I get some say in the 6PAN design)

[05:55] *** r0bby joined
[05:57] *** Schwern left
[06:00] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[06:00] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[06:04] *** justatheory joined
[06:35] <tsilence> Alias_: but how can python adopt 6pan?

[06:35] *** justatheory left
[06:42] <Alias_> tsilence: If 6PAN supports module installation, there's no reason it shouldn't support python packages

[06:42] <Alias_> Or 6PAN packages IMPLEMENTED in Pthon

[06:43] <tsilence> Alias_: i see

[06:44] *** tsilence left
[06:45] *** Schwern joined
[06:59] *** xinming left
[07:02] *** Schwern left
[07:02] *** Schwern joined
[07:23] *** salzh joined
[07:24] *** agentzh joined
[07:37] *** xinming joined
[07:42] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[07:49] *** Aankhen`` joined
[07:57] *** mtve joined
[07:58] *** jisom left
[08:07] *** franck___ joined
[08:15] *** Alias_ left
[08:16] *** drrho joined
[08:20] *** salzh left
[08:24] *** devogon joined
[08:31] *** pen1 joined
[08:40] *** larsen_ joined
[08:48] *** penk left
[08:49] *** alc left
[08:49] *** BinGOs joined
[09:07] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[09:16] *** idiotmax joined
[09:40] *** iblechbot joined
[10:00] *** njbartlett left
[10:00] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[10:00] *** blindfish_ joined
[10:00] *** Rahj joined
[10:03] *** franck____ joined
[10:05] *** iblechbot left
[10:06] *** franck_____ joined
[10:09] <Rahj> I was just reading an old article about Perl 6. Could someone tell me what the latest version is? I can't find a channel called perl7 or perl8. Are you up to 9 or 10 yet?

[10:10] <faxathisia> latest version of what?

[10:10] <Rahj> Of Perl

[10:10] <faxathisia> 5.something

[10:10] <faxathisia> 6 isn't finished yet

[10:11] <Rahj> That's impossible. I read years ago that they were working on it.

[10:11] <faxathisia> What's impossible?

[10:11] <Rahj> Just kidding. I'm Wassercrats.

[10:11] <faxathisia> What does Wassercrats mean?

[10:12] *** agentzh left
[10:13] <Rahj> In Swahili it means "help! There's a wombat in my kitchen!"

[10:14] <faxathisia> Are the Swahili really that afraid of wombat, that they need an entire word for this situation?

[10:16] *** iblechbot joined
[10:18] *** franck___ left
[10:18] <Rahj> There's a legend that a wombat wiped out an ancient village  because the villagers wouldn't feed it the rare Wombat fruit.

[10:20] <Rahj> Isn't Audrey still active on some forum, writing about Perl? I could have sworn I saw recent messages from her.

[10:21] *** agentzh joined
[10:22] *** franck____ left
[10:35] *** stef_ left
[10:36] *** agjal joined
[10:36] <Rahj> How pathetic is it that the colabti log of this is prettier than ChatZilla. :(

[10:38] *** Rahj left
[10:39] *** franck___ joined
[10:39] *** agjal is now known as meppel

[10:54] *** franck____ joined
[10:55] *** franck_____ left
[11:02] *** elmex joined
[11:09] *** iblechbot left
[11:10] *** franck___ left
[11:15] *** chris2 joined
[11:17] *** idiotmax left
[11:19] *** polettix joined
[11:20] *** franck___ joined
[11:21] *** elmex left
[11:22] *** faxathisia left
[11:22] *** ask_ joined
[11:27] *** ask_ is now known as dwave_

[11:33] *** franck____ left
[11:35] *** njbartlett joined
[11:38] *** njbartlett left
[11:48] *** pbuetow left
[11:51] *** cognominal_ left
[11:53] *** cognominal_ joined
[11:57] *** njbartlett joined
[12:02] *** Schwern left
[12:05] *** pbuetow joined
[12:08] *** njbartlett left
[12:08] *** njbartlett joined
[12:17] *** lichtkind joined
[12:19] *** franck____ joined
[12:23] *** penk joined
[12:27] *** ludan left
[12:27] *** ludan joined
[12:31] *** barney joined
[12:34] *** franck___ left
[12:35] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[12:40] *** pen1 left
[12:45] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[13:11] *** ludan left
[13:15] *** ludan joined
[13:20] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[13:28] *** devogon left
[13:34] *** polettix left
[13:41] *** tuxdna joined
[13:41] <tuxdna> hello chacha_chaudhry

[13:42] <chacha_chaudhry> tuxdna: hello

[13:42] <tuxdna> chacha_chaudhry: did u build pugs

[13:43] <tuxdna> chacha_chaudhry: I mean successfully. I am still getting errors.

[13:43] *** PhileasFox joined
[13:45] <chacha_chaudhry> tuxdna: yes, will be back in a while

[13:45] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[13:46] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[13:47] * chacha_chaudhry part

[13:47] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[13:53] *** chacha_chaudhry joined
[13:53] *** chacha_chaudhry left
[13:56] <Aankhen``> What the...?

[13:57] *** PhileasFox left
[13:57] *** pmurias joined
[13:58] *** lichtkind left
[14:10] *** rindolf joined
[14:16] *** tuxdna left
[14:21] *** Limbic_Region joined
[14:27] *** jferrero joined
[14:43] *** jhorwitz joined
[14:51] *** kanru joined
[15:00] *** blindfish_ left
[15:02] *** franck___ joined
[15:03] *** Psyche^ joined
[15:05] *** BinGOs left
[15:09] *** franck____ left
[15:10] *** barney left
[15:11] *** BinGOs joined
[15:19] *** Patterner left
[15:19] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[15:21] *** rindolf left
[15:28] *** ludan left
[15:28] *** dwave__ joined
[15:37] *** dwave_ left
[15:41] *** pbuetow left
[15:58] *** dwave__ left
[15:59] *** dwave_ joined
[16:12] *** dwave__ joined
[16:17] *** kyrbe joined
[16:18] *** kyrbe left
[16:19] *** pmurias left
[16:20] *** dwave_ left
[16:22] *** franck____ joined
[16:24] *** penk left
[16:27] *** Psyche^ joined
[16:36] *** franck___ left
[16:43] *** Patterner left
[16:43] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[16:43] <pugs_svn> r19244 | lwall++ | cut-n-paste error noticed by perljam++

[16:52] *** ludan joined
[16:58] *** pbuetow joined
[17:07] *** jferrero left
[17:13] *** pjcj left
[17:18] *** |Jedai| joined
[17:24] *** ludan left
[17:32] *** ludan joined
[17:35] *** jedai left
[17:36] *** rindolf joined
[17:49] *** franck___ joined
[17:52] *** drrho left
[17:55] *** jisom joined
[17:56] *** sunbear17 joined
[17:57] *** r0bby left
[17:59] *** franck____ left
[18:13] *** sunbear17 left
[18:14] *** sunbear17 joined
[18:14] *** sunbear17 left
[18:15] *** sunbear17 joined
[18:15] *** enigmus_ left
[18:18] *** sunbear17 left
[18:18] *** sunbear17 joined
[18:19] *** |Jedai| left
[18:27] <TimToady> gah, how did P5 end up with a symmetrical smartmatch when we made it assymetrical in P6 a long time ago...

[18:29] <wolverian> I was thinking it was related to the lack of proper signatures

[18:29] <wolverian> but that only holds for subrefs..

[18:29] <wolverian> and even then it doesn't really make sense, I suppose 

[18:30] <jjore-m> last time I looked p5 matched what was written about p6 (which was many months ago).

[18:31] *** sprocket joined
[18:34] *** penk joined
[18:34] *** sprocket left
[18:34] *** cspencer joined
[18:37] <TimToady> smartmatch should be dispatched first by the type of the pattern, or it's difficult to optimize effectively.

[18:38] *** dlocaus joined
[18:38] <TimToady> when 42 should always do a numeric match, and when "foo" should do a string match

[18:39] <dlocaus> .

[18:39] *** sunbear17 left
[18:44] <dlocaus> merry christmas everyone! ;)

[18:45] *** meppel left
[18:45] <TimToady> likewise!

[18:48] <TimToady> anyway, the current P5 sematics makes it *impossible* optimize a numeric switch to a jump table.

[18:48] <TimToady> *semantics

[18:48] <TimToady> *make

[18:49] *** agjal joined
[18:51] <TimToady> not to mention s/optimize/to optimize/

[18:53] <wolverian> hmm

[18:54] <wolverian> I also don't like how $foo ~~ @bar is the same as $foo ~~ \@bar and $foo ~~ (my @bar = ...) doesn't work 

[18:54] <wolverian> s/ and/, but/

[18:54] <wolverian> didn't try $foo ~~ [my @foo = ...], hopefully that works at least :)

[18:59] *** penk left
[18:59] *** penk joined
[18:59] <TimToady> also means that the p5-to-p6 translator will have to just give up and throw "p5when 42" in there, in case the given reverses the test...

[19:02] *** BinGOs left
[19:02] *** BinGOs joined
[19:07] *** jisom left
[19:22] *** rindolf left
[19:25] <Limbic_Region> TimToady - is someone keeping MAD up to date (lots of syntax changes with 5.10.0)?

[19:26] <Limbic_Region> TimToady - more importantly, will MAD help p5 -> p6 if the p5 code in question was before MAD existed?

[19:27] <Limbic_Region> TimToady - also, any progress on longest token matcher?

[19:27] <Limbic_Region> TimToady - finally, happy holidays and thanks for another year of hard work and dedication ;-)

[19:33] *** dlocaus left
[19:35] *** dlocaus joined
[19:37] *** pmurias joined
[19:38] <pmurias> Limbic_Region: why wouldn't MAD work for code written before it's creation?

[19:38] <pmurias> or do you mean for code no longer parsed by newer perls?

[19:42] <Limbic_Region> pmurias - eating a sandwich, be with you in a second

[19:43] <Limbic_Region> pmurias - I mean for code that either no longer parses or functions differently

[19:43] <Limbic_Region> pmurias - for instance, pseudo-hashes

[19:45] <pmurias> Limbic_Region: AFAIK code that just function diffrently would just need special treatment in the translator

[19:45] <pmurias> Limbic_Region: is it a big issue for you?

[19:46] <pmurias> * functions, differently

[19:46] <Limbic_Region> pmurias - I am not overly concerned, I am just not overly familiar with it and so was wondering

[20:00] <Khisanth> Limbic_Region: well for pseudo-hashes, if it doesn't work in the "current" perl5 why would anyone expect them to work in perl6?

[20:00] <pmurias> Limbic_Region: it could be better to have an old perl->p5 converter and run it before the p5->p6 one

[20:14] *** zakame_ left
[20:25] *** jferrero joined
[20:31] *** jferrero left
[21:07] *** fglock joined
[21:10] <pmurias> fglock: merry christmas ;)

[21:11] <fglock> pmurias: feliz natal :)

[21:13] <pmurias> in the "Perl 6 Design Minutes" you mentioned that features would be lost when using Moose, what sort of?

[21:16] <fglock> anonymous classes, which I'm not sure Perl 6 supports anyway

[21:17] <pmurias> fglock: Class::MOP::Class has &create_anon_class

[21:18] <fglock> v6.pm already uses Moose without problem

[21:18] <fglock> problems

[21:19] <fglock> pmurias: do you think kp6-Moose makes sense?

[21:20] <pmurias> thinking

[21:20] *** iblechbot joined
[21:21] <fglock> v6.pm also uses Data::Bind, Sub::Multi and other perl5 tricks

[21:21] *** dwave_ joined
[21:21] <pmurias> fglock: perl5 interoperability would be nice

[21:22] *** dwave_ left
[21:22] *** dwave_ joined
[21:23] <fglock> actually, we could almost reuse the v6.pm backend

[21:24] *** sanfd joined
[21:24] <fglock> s/backend/runtime/

[21:24] <pmurias> do you think we would get bearable speed for a compiler bootstraped that way?

[21:24] <fglock> I'm trying to implement "Pad.pm" in Parrot

[21:25] <fglock> not really

[21:25] *** ting left
[21:25] <pmurias> it should be much faster than the mp6 one

[21:27] <fglock> maybe - the new token implementation is faster

[21:27] *** dwave__ left
[21:27] <TimToady> yes, P6 supports anonymous classes; in fact, it requires them

[21:27] <TimToady> (or mixins can't work right)

[21:28] <pmurias> fglock: although i tend to underestimate the fact that anything can be slower the mp6-based kp6 ;)

[21:28] <TimToady> Limbic_Region: some effort was made to update MAD for 5.10, but doubtless there is some bitrot there

[21:29] <fglock> TimToady: merry christmas

[21:29] <TimToady> feliz natal :)

[21:30] <fglock> I'm more into the Channuka thing :)

[21:31] <pmurias> i have my 18 birthday today too ;)

[21:31] *** Aankhen`` left
[21:31] <fglock> happy birthay pmurias!

[21:32] <pmurias> thanks :)

[21:33] <fglock> birthday

[21:33] *** agjal left
[21:34] <fglock> dynlexpad.pmc in Parrot looks a bit like Pad.pm in kp6 

[21:36] <pmurias> looking

[21:36] <fglock> it looks like the Scheme compiler is the only place it is used

[21:37] <fglock> I wonder if it would make sense to write a pmc for kp6 - this looks like a hack

[21:39] <pmurias> fglock: it looks a bit like Scope

[21:39] <pmurias> does it handle outer?

[21:39] <fglock> I'm not sure, I think it does

[21:40] <fglock> but maybe outer is a low level VM thing

[21:40] <fglock> I'm not sure how it works in parrot

[21:43] *** iblechbot left
[21:44] <fglock> I'm still learning Parrot - and the Parrot culture too

[21:46] <pmurias> i'm reading pdd20

[21:46] <PerlJam> "parrot culture" is an odd thing to see written down.

[21:47] <fglock> PerlJam: I mean, you can't just get to the irc channel and ask for a feature

[21:48] <PerlJam> sure you could!  But what reaction are you hoping to elicit :)

[21:51] <PerlJam> btw, did you see ruoso's post to perlmonks?  I can't help but have mixed emotions about it. In one sense it's more "strength through diversity" and in another it's less brain power working on the stuff that I think matters most  

[21:51] <fglock> ruoso is here :)

[21:52] <fglock> ruoso says: i think diversity may be the only way for getting p6 really out

[21:53] <fglock> re Parrot, I probably need to learn more about it, first

[21:54] <fglock> Parrot has several semantic layers, I need to choose the right one

[21:56] <PerlJam> With the Parrot Compiler Toolikit, implementing perl6 on parrot seems quite imminent  (more so than ever).  Either way, as long as we get a perl 6 in the end, I'm happy  :-)

[21:58] <PerlJam> fglock: there was a time when I thought that you would beat the parrot implementation to a perl6, but now I think it's swung the other way.

[21:59] <fglock> PerlJam: re Toolkit, I've been playing with it, and I'm trying to contribute to "perl6" - but I'm having trouble mapping the kp6 feature set to parrot

[22:00] <fglock> I can't see yet how to add some kp6 features to "perl6"

[22:01] <PerlJam> such as?

[22:01] <pmurias> fglock: LexPad seems to be like Scope.vars

[22:02] <fglock> pugs: { my $x; BEGIN { $x=3 }; say $x }

[22:02] <exp_evalbot> OUTPUT[3‚ê§]

[22:03] <fglock> PerlJam: "perl6" doesn't have a way to define lexicals at compile-time, yet

[22:05] <fglock> the kp6 AST has a place to store the lexical environment of the program under compilation

[22:05] <fglock> I'm trying to find the Parrot counterpart

[22:05] <pmurias> LexInfo

[22:06] <pmurias> fglock: have you read pdd20?

[22:07] <fglock> pmurias: can you create LexInfo and LexPad using PIR? this could be it

[22:09] <pmurias> don't know

[22:09] <fglock> re read: maybe I should reread

[22:10] <pmurias> sleep&

[22:10] *** pmurias left
[22:10] *** franck___ left
[22:13] *** justatheory joined
[22:13] <fglock> PerlJam: I'm still looking for alternate implementations

[22:13] <fglock> this is not a priority for perl6,

[22:14] <fglock> but kp6 depends on it for bootstrapping

[22:16] *** sanfd left
[22:17] *** sanfd joined
[22:17] *** chris2 left
[22:18] *** r0bby joined
[22:21] <fglock> PerlJam: re diversity vs. brainpower,

[22:21] <fglock> I'm divided between kp6 and perl6

[22:23] <PerlJam> Hmm. 

[22:23] <fglock> perl6 requires hacking the whole tool stack, if you want to make real contributions

[22:26] *** cspencer left
[22:26] <PerlJam> I never thought so much that it *required* hacking the whole stack, though I guess you're right as my interactions have basically been doing that.

[22:27] <PerlJam> But I think that's just a function of the flux that parrot/pct are in.  Once things settle down a bit, you can make meaninful contributions in specific areas easily I think

[22:27] <fglock> I hope I get to it soon :)

[22:29] *** jhorwitz left
[22:33] *** solar_ant joined
[22:40] <fglock> bbl &

[22:41] <solar_ant> hi all 

[22:41] <solar_ant> i ahve heard that perl6 doesnt have references 

[22:41] <PerlJam> hello solar_ant.  No, it has Captures.

[22:41] <solar_ant> wonder how lists of lists and such data structures are made possible 

[22:41] <PerlJam> solar_ant: transparently

[22:42] <solar_ant> PerlJam:  where can I read about it 

[22:43] <PerlJam> http://dev.perl.org/perl6/doc/synopsis.html

[22:43] <lambdabot> Title: Synopses - perl6

[22:46] <solar_ant> thanks PerlJam  :)

[22:50] <wolverian> http://spec.pugscode.org might be nicer

[22:51] <lambdabot> Title: Official Perl 6 Documentation

[22:51] <wolverian> with the tocs

[22:53] <solar_ant> the little I have seen looks great  

[22:53] <solar_ant> hoping for it to release soon ! 

[22:54] <solar_ant> wolverian:  this site is much easier to read 

[22:54] <wolverian> which? 

[22:54] <solar_ant> spec.pugscode.org

[22:55] <wolverian> good :)

[22:56] <PerlJam> It's all the same stuff, just in different packaging :)

[22:58] *** BinGOs_ joined
[22:58] *** BinGOs left
[22:58] *** BinGOs_ is now known as BinGOs

[22:58] <solar_ant> yeah PerlJam  :)

[22:58] *** fglock left
[22:59] <solar_ant> I meant easier to read as in the layout 

[23:37] *** solar_ant left
[23:43] *** larsen_ left
[23:44] *** r0bby left
[23:45] *** r0bby joined
