[00:18] *** lidden joined
[00:28] *** foo\ joined
[01:20] *** leed joined
[01:21] *** devbot6 joined
[01:24] *** explorer joined
[01:25] <audreyt> !wiki AboutPugs

[01:25] <devbot6> audreyt: TracBot does not have a tracBase defined for this channel

[01:26] <audreyt> !wiki AboutPugs

[01:26] <devbot6> audreyt: http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs

[01:26] <lambdabot> Title: AboutPugs - Pugs - Trac

[01:28] <audreyt> !maketicket "Set up buildbot" We need automated nightly builds for (at least) Win32, OSX and Linux -- Also copy over instructions from eg http://cvs.haskell.org/trac/ghc/wiki/BuildBot

[01:28] <devbot6> audreyt: Posting a new ticket failed.

[01:28] <lambdabot> Title: BuildBot - GHC - Trac

[01:30] <TimToady> that page says that Perl 6 development happens on p6compiler, but that list has had three messages in the last month...

[01:30] <audreyt> please login and edit it away...

[01:32] <audreyt> and we can test devbot's RSS announcement that way too

[01:35] <TimToady> trouble is I'm not sure what to change it *to*

[01:36] <audreyt> delete it then? :)

[01:36] <allbery_b> #perl6 of course :)

[01:37] <TimToady> should it send something here?

[01:38] *** devbot6 is now known as audreyt

[01:38] <TimToady> run away!!! it's the devil bot!!!

[01:38] <TimToady> whew!

[01:39] *** amnesiac joined
[01:40] *** devbot6 joined
[01:43] *** devbot6 joined
[01:44] *** devbot6 joined
[01:47] <devbot6> Announcement from my owner (audreyt): #perl6 tracfeed

[01:49] *** amnesiac joined
[01:50] <devbot6> http://dev.pugscode.org/timeline?milestone=on&ticket=on&ticketdetails=on&wiki=on&max=5&daysback=2&format=rss: AboutPugs edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs> || AboutPugs edited by lwall <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs> || WikiStart edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart> || ProjectDependencyGraph edited by gaal <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/ProjectDependencyGraph> || WikiStart edited by audreyt <

[01:50] <lambdabot> Title: Timeline - Pugs - Trac, http://tinyurl.com/2zaxzo

[01:51] <audreyt> !rss announce dev

[01:51] <devbot6> audreyt: The operation succeeded.

[01:51] <TimToady> but did the patient survive?

[01:51] <devbot6> dev: AboutPugs edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs> || AboutPugs edited by lwall <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs> || WikiStart edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart> || ProjectDependencyGraph edited by gaal <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/ProjectDependencyGraph> || WikiStart edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart>

[01:52] <TimToady> should the channel topic be pointing there somewhere?

[01:52] <audreyt> sure

[01:52] <audreyt> sec

[01:52] <ashelyb_> audreyt: I checked out the rss feed -- it doesn't show authors of commits, which is slightly annoying.

[01:53] <TimToady> the spew here does

[01:53] <devbot6> dev: AboutPugs edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs> || AboutPugs edited by lwall <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs> || WikiStart edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart> || ProjectDependencyGraph edited by gaal <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/ProjectDependencyGraph> || WikiStart edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart> || AboutPugs edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/Ab

[01:53] <ashelyb_> TimToady: true, though I wish the spew here showed files changed.

[01:53] <TimToady> it seems cumulative

[01:54] <audreyt> tweaking

[01:54] <devbot6> dev: AboutPugs edited by audreyt <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/AboutPugs>

[01:54] <audreyt> ok, better.

[01:54] <ashelyb_> nice!

[01:54] <ashelyb_> audreyt++

[01:54] <TimToady> .++.++

[01:56] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #1 (task created): Set up BuildBot for nightly builds <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/1>

[01:57] <audreyt> that looks... useful

[01:59] <audreyt> rss add planet6 http://planetsix.perl-foundation.org/rss20.xml

[01:59] <audreyt> !rss add planet6 http://planetsix.perl-foundation.org/rss20.xml

[01:59] <devbot6> audreyt: The operation succeeded.

[02:00] <audreyt> !rss announce planet6

[02:00] <devbot6> audreyt: The operation succeeded.

[02:00] <devbot6> planet6: perl6.announce: Weekly Perl 6 mailing list summary for 14-20 January, 2007 <http://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.perl6.announce/549> || Audrey Tang: Weekly Perl 6 mailing list summary for 14-20 January, 2007 <http://pugs.blogs.com/pugs/2007/01/weekly_perl_6_m_2.html> || Luke Palmer: Perl 6 Rules: Elementary Compositionality + More Vocabulary <http://use.perl.org/~luqui/journal/32200?from=rss> || perl6.announce: Weekly Perl 6 mailing list 

[02:02] <audreyt> !changeset 15213

[02:02] <devbot6> audreyt: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/15213

[02:02] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 15213 - Pugs - Trac

[02:03] <audreyt> !addticket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev and make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs"

[02:03] <devbot6> audreyt: Error: "addticket" is not a valid command.

[02:03] <audreyt> !newticket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev and make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs"

[02:03] <devbot6> audreyt: (newticket ) -- Gives the link to the trac ticket submission page.

[02:04] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev and make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs"

[02:04] <devbot6> audreyt: (maketicket [--type=<type>] [--reporter=<reporter>] [--component=<component>] [--owner=<owner>] [--milestone=<milestone>] [--version=<version>] "<summary>" <description> ) -- Submit a new ticket with summary <summary> and description <description> with the supplied options.

[02:04] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs

[02:04] <devbot6> audreyt: Posting a new ticket failed.

[02:04] <audreyt> hm.

[02:09] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs

[02:09] <devbot6> audreyt: Posting a new ticket failed.

[02:10] <tene> !maketicket "Making tickets through devbot6 doesn't work" Someone should fix devbot6 so that you can use it to make tickets

[02:10] <devbot6> tene: Posting a new ticket failed.

[02:12] <audreyt> lol

[02:13] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs

[02:13] <devbot6> audreyt: Posting a new ticket failed: http://dev.pugscode.org/newticket ().

[02:13] <lambdabot> Title: New Ticket - Pugs - Trac

[02:14] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs

[02:14] <devbot6> audreyt: An error has occurred and has been logged. Please contact this bot's administrator for more information.

[02:14] <audreyt> hm, 400 bad request

[02:17] *** ashleyb joined
[02:19] *** dmq joined
[02:19] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs

[02:19] <devbot6> audreyt: 'Posting a new ticket failed: http://dev.pugscode.org/newticket (<!DOCTYPE html\n    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"\n    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">\n<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">\n<head>\n <title>New Ticket - Pugs - Trac</title><link rel="start" href="/wiki" /><link rel="search" href="/search" /><link rel="help" (17 more messages)

[02:19] <lambdabot> Title: New Ticket - Pugs - Trac

[02:20] *** thepler joined
[02:21] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs

[02:21] <devbot6> audreyt: 'Posting a new ticket failed: http://dev.pugscode.org/newticket (<!DOCTYPE html\n    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"\n    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">\n<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">\n<head>\n <title>New Ticket - Pugs - Trac</title><link rel="start" href="/wiki" /><link rel="search" href="/search" /><link rel="help" (17 more messages)

[02:21] <lambdabot> Title: New Ticket - Pugs - Trac

[02:27] *** renormalist left
[02:42] *** mjk joined
[02:57] *** mrossetti joined
[03:00] *** justatheory joined
[03:05] *** bucky joined
[03:05] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs.

[03:05] <devbot6> audreyt: An error has occurred and has been logged. Please contact this bot's administrator for more information.

[03:05] <tene> ?eval my $j = any(1..100); say "omgwtf" if 20 == $j

[03:05] *** evalbot_r15237 is now known as evalbot_r15241

[03:05] <evalbot_r15241> OUTPUT[omgwtf‚ê§omgwtf‚ê§] (Bool::True)

[03:06] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs.

[03:06] <devbot6> audreyt: An error has occurred and has been logged. Please contact this bot's administrator for more information.

[03:08] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs.

[03:08] <devbot6> audreyt: 'Posting a new ticket failed: http://dev.pugscode.org/newticket (<!DOCTYPE html\n    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"\n    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">\n<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">\n<head>\n <title>New Ticket - Pugs - Trac</title><link rel="start" href="/wiki" /><link rel="search" href="/search" /><link rel="help" (17 more messages)

[03:08] <lambdabot> Title: New Ticket - Pugs - Trac

[03:09] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs.

[03:09] <devbot6> audreyt: An error has occurred and has been logged. Please contact this bot's administrator for more information.

[03:09] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs.

[03:09] <devbot6> audreyt: 'Posting a new ticket failed: http://dev.pugscode.org/newticket (<!DOCTYPE html\n    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"\n    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">\n<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">\n<head>\n <title>New Ticket - Pugs - Trac</title><link rel="start" href="/wiki" /><link rel="search" href="/search" /><link rel="help" (17 more messages)

[03:09] <lambdabot> Title: New Ticket - Pugs - Trac

[03:10] *** araujo joined
[03:11] <tene> ?eval my $j = any(1..100); my $k = 1; $k++ if 20 == $j; $k

[03:11] <evalbot_r15241> \3

[03:11] <tene> That's... wrong.

[03:11] <tene> I think.

[03:12] <lidden> ?eval my $j = any(1..100); my $k = 1; $k++ if 200 == $j; $k

[03:12] <evalbot_r15241> \1

[03:16] <audreyt> !maketicket "Move pugscode.org pages from svn to dev" Also, make pugscode.org redirect to AboutPugs.

[03:16] <devbot6> audreyt: 'Posting a new ticket failed: http://dev.pugscode.org/newticket (<!DOCTYPE html\n    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"\n    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">\n<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">\n<head>\n <title>New Ticket - Pugs - Trac</title><link rel="start" href="/wiki" /><link rel="search" href="/search" /><link rel="help" (17 more messages)

[03:16] <lambdabot> Title: New Ticket - Pugs - Trac

[03:17] * audreyt gives up for now ;)

[03:17] <tene> So, audreyt, you able to confirm or deny that that's a bug?

[03:17] <audreyt> (supposedly it'd need to move form urllib2 to mechanize or cookielib to properly handle cookies.)

[03:17] <TimToady> why don't you put in "constant" as a declarator instead.  :)

[03:17] <TimToady> I tried earlier and failed... :)

[03:19] <audreyt> tene: yes, postfix-if seems to be wrong. write a test please

[03:19] <audreyt> t/junction/ somewhere

[03:19] <audreyt> ?eval  my $j = any(1..100); my $k = 1;  if 20 == $j { $k++ } $k

[03:19] <evalbot_r15241> \2

[03:23] <mugwump> heh, love that dependency graph

[03:24] <mugwump> what does the blue represent?

[03:24] <audreyt> heya mugwump 

[03:24] <audreyt> the blueline is PugsRoadMap numbering

[03:26] <audreyt> TimToady: does "constant sub foo {...}" simply mean "sub foo is inlined {...}"?

[03:26] <TimToady> inlineable, anyway

[03:26] <TimToady> and run at compile time, probably

[03:26] <TimToady> maybe BEGIN is "constant sub BEGIN {...}"

[03:27] <mugwump> is this the same: "sub foo() is pure { ... }" ?

[03:28] <TimToady> dunno, I didn't write that trait

[03:28] <mugwump> oh, I thought pure was the trait for functions without side-effects

[03:28] <audreyt> TimToady: run at compile time?

[03:28] <audreyt> I thought that's what macro is for

[03:29] <audreyt> my sub foo {...}   ===    my &foo ::= sub { ... }

[03:29] <audreyt> constant sub foo {...}   ===    constant &foo ::= sub { ... }

[03:29] <TimToady> macro body isn't "real" code

[03:29] <TimToady> it's metacode

[03:29] <TimToady> at this point, I don't care if it's really constant

[03:29] <audreyt> ok.

[03:30] <audreyt> so it's like "my"

[03:30] <TimToady> I just tried aliasing it to "my" and it didn't work

[03:30] <audreyt> still cisible in MY::() ?

[03:30] <audreyt> *visible

[03:30] <TimToady> presumably

[03:31] <TimToady> aliasing to my and throwing a readonly on it would work for now

[03:32] <audreyt> done.

[03:32] <audreyt> testing before commit...

[03:34] <TimToady> I wonder if the dup junction could be related to multithreading the junction

[03:38] <audreyt> sure is

[03:38] <svnbot6> r15242 | audreyt++ | * New "constant" scope as alis for "my" (not really constant yet)

[03:38] <audreyt> $_ is passed (True|False)

[03:38] <audreyt> to the implicit block around if

[03:38] <audreyt> ?eval $_ if 3

[03:38] <evalbot_r15241> \3

[03:38] <audreyt> problem is it really should not be an implicit $_

[03:40] *** kanru joined
[03:40] <audreyt> fixed. testing

[03:47] *** amnesiac joined
[03:49] *** lisppaste3 joined
[03:50] *** buubot joined
[03:50] *** hexmode joined
[03:52] *** [z] joined
[03:57] <avar> audreyt: http://sial.org/pbot/22906 # more progress on re::engine::Plugin, I basically have everything working, what's left is just moving more stuff to the $re object (named matches et al), supporting captures (easy from now on) and making sure all my SV ref keeping is correct:)

[03:57] <lambdabot> Title: Paste #22906 from Someone at 85.197.228.236

[03:58] <avar> and oops, those flags should be 40961 :)

[04:00] * avar sleep &

[04:04] <TimToady> karma TimToady

[04:04] <jabbot> TimToady: TimToady has karma of 40

[04:05] <audreyt> avar: nice!

[04:05] <audreyt> avar: upload upload upload

[04:06] <avar> It's still very brokenish, but I'll be able to make a CPAN release soonish

[04:06] <avar> ish++

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ | * tene++ reported that:

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |     warn if 1|2|3;

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |   errorneously warned thrice because it was rewritten as:

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |     if 1|2|3 -> $_ { warn }

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |   instead of the clearly saner:

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |     if 1|2|3 { warn }

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |   This commit fixes it by defaulting syntactic prim/bare blocks

[04:06] <svnbot6> r15243 | audreyt++ |   to take () instead of ($_=$+_).

[04:06] <audreyt> chsh ish

[04:15] <audreyt> <- really should start making slides instead of procrastinating online

[04:34] <beppu__> audreyt, what are you making slides for?

[04:35] *** beppu joined
[04:37] <audreyt> beppu: Monday's talk @ google.tw

[04:38] <beppu__> good luck on that.  I haven't been able to contribute much, but I appreciate all the work you're doing for Perl 6.

[04:38] * beppu__ going home....

[04:38] <audreyt> thank-you for your kind words :)

[04:52] <lidden> \wii

[04:59] <Khisanth> those seem to be sold out

[05:01] <amnesiac> Khisanth, ssshhh....

[05:56] *** JYC joined
[06:14] *** BooK_ joined
[06:33] <nothingmuch> Ciao all! off to the airport

[06:41] <kanru> =quin

[06:43] *** kanru joined
[07:24] *** jisom joined
[07:26] *** jisom joined
[07:30] <gaal> there are lambdawii?

[07:38] <audreyt> TimToady: say I'd like to request timely destruction of a variable, in the style of

[07:38] <audreyt> given DBI.connect(...) -> $dbh { LEAVE { $dbh.DESTROY } ... normal code ... }

[07:39] <audreyt> is that the idiomatic way to do this? should there by some way to somehow tell the Codethat its param is to be timely destructed upon LEAVE?

[07:39] <audreyt> (assuming this RAII pattern is desirable to keep)

[07:39] <audreyt> (given nondeterministic GC)

[07:42] <audreyt> I guess this can also be implemented as ENTER/LEAVE methods defined on the $dbh object, and have "given" always call them.

[07:46] <audreyt> (that's the C#/Python way.)

[07:46] <audreyt> the way D solves it is by introducing yet another declarator

[07:47] <audreyt> which translates to p6:

[07:47] <audreyt> given DBI.connect(...) -> $dbh is scoped { ... }

[07:48] <audreyt> the trait would cause its immediate DESTROY upon LEAVE.

[07:48] <audreyt> maybe "scoped" is the wrong word. but a trait feels useful.

[08:10] *** Ziggy6 joined
[08:18] *** Belaf joined
[08:24] <nothingmuch> yo yo yo homies sup

[08:24] <nothingmuch> werd to yo lambdas

[08:24] * nothingmuch is studying... stevan is planning on deserting him in New Haven so he can learn how to be an OG

[08:29] <audreyt> OG?

[08:29] <audreyt> Ocaml Guru?

[08:30] *** GeJ joined
[08:39] <rgs> that sure sounds like some sort of initiation

[08:40] <wolverian> http://t-a-w.blogspot.com/2007/02/right-to-criticize-programming.html -- nice flame ;)

[08:40] <lambdabot> Title: taw's blog: The right to criticize programming languages, http://tinyurl.com/2cavc5

[08:41] <rgs> so. while I'm here. I hope to put up somewhere a summary of all improvements in 5.10 regexps. just to check that P6 isn't left behind :)

[08:41] <rgs> GeJ: hello.

[08:45] <audreyt> rgs: woot :)

[08:46] <rgs> wolverian: oh come on. this guy says java is portable :)

[08:46] <wolverian> I wish everyone was as lucid as taw in their flames.

[08:46] <wolverian> rgs, compared to many things, it is... (sadly)

[08:46] <wolverian> 'course we know better.

[08:46] <rgs> right.

[08:47] <rgs> I had once to port a Java application (with threads) from Windows to Solaris. That was teh pain. Perl 5 is much nicer. But most languages would have made the thing almost impossible...

[08:49] <araujo> somebody talking so good about java, it's just too suspicious :-)

[09:18] *** Dr_Pi_ joined
[09:18] *** VanilleBert joined
[09:27] *** buetow joined
[09:59] *** elmex joined
[10:06] *** devogon joined
[10:22] *** foo\ joined
[10:24] <shay|p6> good morning (IST)

[10:27] <audreyt> greetings.

[10:31] <shay|p6> hello audreyt, how are you doing?

[10:31] <shay|p6> araujo: hermano :)

[10:35] *** dduncan left
[10:43] <audreyt> shay|p6: doing just fine, trying to find out how to describe Perl 6 as a language optimized to create languages

[10:44] *** pmurias joined
[10:46] <audreyt> such that library authors can use another library to shape perl 6 into a language they like, and use that language to shape the language for the library's user (recursively)

[10:47] <merlyn> (and in the distance, 10000 managers run screaming)

[10:48] <audreyt> a general-purpose domain-specific programming language if you will.

[10:48] <audreyt> well, the Rails dialect of Ruby (which is not at all like Ruby) seems to work just fine...

[10:48] <merlyn> as I said... screaming. :)

[10:48] <merlyn> sorry, I wear at least two hats

[10:49] <audreyt> aye aye. which is why perl6 _also_ has to focus on sane defaults

[10:49] <audreyt> unlike perl5 which has this "use strict" dialect

[10:49] <merlyn> as a perl6 user, I'm looking forward to this.  as a guy who has to sell this to corps around teh world, I'm a bit confused at the complexity :)

[10:50] <audreyt> the manager would like people to immediately reshape their perl5 to perl5-strict-dialect, I hope :)

[10:51] <audreyt> the point here is, "shape" very often means not "drastically change syntax" but "enforce certain policy and get the compiler reject all other styles"

[10:51] <audreyt> the ability to do that should make managers happy, I hope :)

[10:51] <audreyt> for example, the ability to completely pretend three-part loops did not exist.

[10:51] <merlyn> it's good ultimately, it just looks scary until it's properly sdescribed

[10:52] <audreyt> nod, which is I'm agonizing over the words/examples to use...

[10:53] <audreyt> s/I'm/why I'm/

[11:11] <svnbot6> r15244 | moritz++ | Added test cases for say with explicit filehandle

[11:24] *** marmic joined
[12:09] *** ludan joined
[12:10] <ludan> ola

[12:10] <moritz> tach ;)

[12:20] *** chris2 joined
[12:22] *** Ziggy6 left
[12:30] *** mjk joined
[12:41] *** kanru joined
[12:55] *** explorer joined
[13:08] *** elmex joined
[13:24] *** trym__ joined
[13:35] *** explorer joined
[13:39] *** demq joined
[13:43] *** Ziggy6 joined
[13:53] * avar yawns

[14:18] *** mrossetti joined
[14:19] *** Limbic_Region joined
[14:47] *** vladd joined
[14:48] <vladd> hi Ziggy6!

[14:50] *** mrossetti joined
[14:58] *** pmurias joined
[14:58] <pmurias> hi

[14:59] <pmurias> are the sematic used by multimethods in specifing the best match speced somewhere?

[15:00] <pmurias> i read the Multisubs and Multimethods section of S12

[15:01] *** cmarcelo joined
[15:01] <nwc10> A good question. I assume so, but it doesn't seem that anyone who knows the answer is awake

[15:01] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #2 (task created): Update pugs t/regex/p6regex/ to use the new rx_* files. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/2>

[15:02] <pmurias> the synopsis just uses the word "best"

[15:03] <audreyt> pmurias: docs/notes/multi_method_dispatch/mmd-draft.txt

[15:03] <audreyt> it's the closest we have with @Larry for consensus

[15:04] <audreyt> but it needs to be ported to Spec English and littered with more examples

[15:04] <audreyt> maybe maketicket for that? :)

[15:05] <TimToady> I don't like the voting metaphor

[15:06] <audreyt> neither do I :/ we had the racing metaphor first

[15:06] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #3 (task created): Capture fglock/putter interview info to kp6 faq. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/3>

[15:06] <audreyt> but racing snipers that doubles as suicide bombers are... a bit too violent for me

[15:07] <audreyt> (I think undeads were there for a while too)

[15:07] <nwc10> "branes" and zombies? richardc infiltrated perl 6 for a while? :-)

[15:08] <cmarcelo> moose! is there a way to create a default/easy link for showing the all open tickets in trac? now there isn't a 1-click way to view them :P

[15:08] <lambdabot> cmarcelo: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[15:08] <audreyt> add one to the homepage then? :)

[15:08] <audreyt> wait, http://dev.pugscode.org/query is it no?

[15:08] <lambdabot> Title: Custom Query - Pugs - Trac

[15:10] <cmarcelo> not for me.. I mean, the /query link gets me to a form, not to a list of tickets.. i'll finish TASKS -> tickets then see how to make a 1-click link..

[15:11] <audreyt> cmarcelo++

[15:11] <audreyt> http://dev.pugscode.org/query shows 3 tickets for me

[15:11] <lambdabot> Title: Custom Query - Pugs - Trac

[15:12] <cmarcelo> hmm.. are you logged in?

[15:12] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #4 (task created): Fix PIL2JS. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/4>

[15:12] <audreyt> tried with both yes and no

[15:12] <audreyt> if you are logged in, try remove the first filter

[15:12] <audreyt> that says owner=you?

[15:12] <audreyt> I think it's a sticky operation

[15:14] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #5 (task created): Refactor util/run-smoke.pl. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/5>

[15:15] <cmarcelo> every time I leave /query and come back, the first filter is back :(

[15:17] <audreyt> try making a link on the homepage:

[15:18] <audreyt> [query:status=new|assigned|reopened Open tickets]

[15:18] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #6 (task created): Keep STATUS file updated. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/6>

[15:18] <audreyt> !wiki TracQuery

[15:18] <devbot6> audreyt: http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/TracQuery

[15:18] <audreyt> see that for more details

[15:18] <lambdabot> Title: TracQuery - Pugs - Trac

[15:18] <cmarcelo> oka

[15:20] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #7 (task created): Tests directory organization. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/7>

[15:21] <TimToady> audreyt: we've already got "is leave { .close }"

[15:22] <TimToady> er, "will leave { .close }

[15:23] <TimToady> I wonder if explicit reference counting should be built into open/close generally

[15:23] <TimToady> and you make an explicit ref-counted link with some kind of reopen

[15:23] <cmarcelo> (putter?) the files docs/Perl6/Overview/* looks like PODified, so looks like a task done, or the entry in TASKS means something else?

[15:25] <audreyt> TimToady: what I don't quite like is the explicit {.close}

[15:25] <Limbic_Region> babel: german english Auf Wiedersehen

[15:25] <TimToady> will close

[15:25] <Limbic_Region> not here either apparently

[15:25] <TimToady> except then it'd chew up the normal body

[15:25] <audreyt> yeah.

[15:26] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #8 (task created): Fix old repository (svn.openfoundry.org) references. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/8>

[15:26] <TimToady> is closed

[15:26] <TimToady> is autoclose

[15:26] <TimToady> hmm

[15:26] <merlyn> is clothes

[15:26] <audreyt> the problem with {.close} is it's auotinvoking a userlevel method

[15:26] <audreyt> or rather, force programming to spell out the autoinvoking

[15:26] <TimToady> anyway, if we culturally generalized open/close to refcount semantics, we could have a consistent way to pass out a refcounted object

[15:27] <TimToady> or clean it up if nobody took an explicit refcount

[15:27] <TimToady> merlyn: didn't get a chance to congratulate you!!!

[15:27] <audreyt> nod. that would be nice

[15:27] <merlyn> well, it's more about what I haven't done for ten years, than what I have done. :)

[15:27] <merlyn> but I didn't do anything successfully, so here I am!

[15:27] <TimToady> well, don't start now.  :)

[15:27] <cmarcelo> brb &

[15:28] <merlyn> definitely not!

[15:28] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #9 (enhancement created): Make evalbot report the build failure when it happens. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/9>

[15:28] <merlyn> it's the biggest non-news in my life. :)

[15:28] <TimToady> where in the world are you at the moment?

[15:28] <merlyn> the anti-press-release

[15:28] <merlyn> just getting off of geekcruise#36

[15:28] <merlyn> physically on the waterfront in ft lauderdale florida

[15:29] <TimToady> I know the place...

[15:29] <merlyn> I'm flying home tomorrow for two days, then down to burbank for two weeks, then up to palo alto for 10 days.

[15:29] <merlyn> and this is the tail end of a 3 week trip already

[15:29] <merlyn> so two days home out of seven weeks

[15:31] <TimToady> so maybe role Handle is our official way to do explicit refcounting

[15:34] <TimToady> maybe we're trying to get rid of the wrong thing here, and it's the "leave" that's the usual case

[15:34] <TimToady> which would give us "will { .close }"

[15:36] <audreyt> hm.

[15:36] <TimToady> or throw out "will" and replace it with "leave", "keep", "undo" etc.

[15:36] <TimToady> "leave {.close}"

[15:37] <audreyt> still feels rather nonidiomatic compared to other languages with nondeterministic GC...

[15:37] <TimToady> but I'm not sure this will be used often enough to warrant any default over "will leave {.close}"

[15:37] <audreyt> filehandles surely?

[15:37] <TimToady> yes, but most of most programs is processing lines, not opening files.

[15:38] *** trym joined
[15:38] <audreyt> fair enough...

[15:38] <TimToady> I do realize that P5 programmers will balk at writing even that much...

[15:39] <TimToady> maybe its -> Handle $h that is magically scoping

[15:40] <audreyt> been thinking that, yes.

[15:40] <audreyt> my Handle $h # too

[15:40] <TimToady> FileHandle is also rather bulky

[15:41] <audreyt> and all its subtypes

[15:41] <TimToady> well, I guess IO is our shorthand

[15:41] <audreyt> so thing that derives Handle is magically scoped when annotated as a constraint

[15:41] <TimToady> it's almost turning into a monad...

[15:41] <audreyt> for it to be a proper monad we still need this RealWorld type...

[15:42] <TimToady> nah, that's just the prototypical monad

[15:42] <TimToady> anything that doesn't behave programmatically can be a monad.  :)

[15:42] <audreyt> that's very Leibnizian of you...

[15:43] <TimToady> I often speak hyperbolically

[15:43] <TimToady> no wait, that was the other L guy...

[15:44] <audreyt> this L guy speaks in binary...

[15:44] <audreyt> given sufficient reason, that is

[15:44] <allbery_b> monads are just perl<6's magic :)

[15:45] <TimToady> use perl5:Foo == thread the Foo module with the perl5 monad...

[15:45] <audreyt> yay I finished slides sketch

[15:45] <TimToady> audreyt++

[15:46] <TimToady> speaking of which, why doesn't audreyt++.++ work?

[15:46] <audreyt> I guess "Extensible Compilation" is a good enough description

[15:46] <audreyt> better than "Malleable Compilation"

[15:46] <TimToady> oh way, that's the value

[15:46] <TimToady> nevermind

[15:46] <audreyt> (for the metaprogramming support)

[15:46] * audreyt ponders "Maimable Compilation"

[15:47] <TimToady> Derivable languages

[15:47] <TimToady> I keep picturing Perl 6 as the root of a big naming scheme for all languages.  :)

[15:47] <audreyt> it's both the root and the top...

[15:47] <audreyt> Root|Roof

[15:48] <TimToady> use perl6://now/I/am/Python

[15:48] <Juerd> use chameleon;

[15:49] <TimToady> but I understand you are trying not to scare the audience too much :)

[15:50] <audreyt> TimToady: so, if I'm to schedule a Mountain View hackathon, does July work for you? something like early Jul .. oscon

[15:50] <audreyt> May or June is also possible, but that means two US trips for me (already submitted oscon)

[15:50] <TimToady> I think so, have to check with my executive secretary to be sure

[15:51] <audreyt> ok. I plan to stay longer this time

[15:51] <TimToady> she sez it should be fine

[15:51] <audreyt> will check with google folks to see if they have spare rooms in the 'plex

[15:51] <audreyt> failing that, would need to find localhost

[15:51] <TimToady> you would be most welcome at our humble adobe

[15:52] <TimToady> it's probably closer to the googleplex than their accomodations

[15:52] <TimToady> quite walkable, in fact

[15:52] <moritz> btw is anybody coming to debconf7?

[15:53] <TimToady> name it debcon7 and you'll get crackers coming by accident

[15:53] <audreyt> TimToady: oh nice. 'plex may work better as hackathon space if we get more people joinging

[15:53] <moritz> TimToady: I have no influence on the name ;(

[15:54] <audreyt> but I've love staying at ::Larry -- hopefully I won't bore you to death :)

[15:54] <audreyt> *I'd

[15:55] <TimToady> look, our kids ranged from ADD to Asperger's...we're ready for anything

[15:55] <TimToady> well, almost anything...

[15:56] <audreyt> :) will keep you posted then

[15:56] <TimToady> kewl

[15:56] <Juerd> From ADD to PDD is more symmetrical ;)

[15:56] * audreyt tries to get some sleep... bbl &

[15:57] <TimToady> ah yes, my favorite diagnosis PDD-NOS

[15:57] <Juerd> As opposed to the very tiny group of PDD-OS :P

[15:57] <TimToady> "not otherwise specified"

[15:57] <Juerd> Including PDD-Asperger.

[15:57] <Juerd> Do they include "PDD" where you live? 

[15:57] <Juerd> Or is Asperger's seen as a thing by itself?

[15:58] <TimToady> they didn't have Asperger in the Dmumble IV

[15:58] <TimToady> PDD-NOS was the closest they had

[15:58] <Juerd> DSM-IV

[15:59] <TimToady> the DSM IV, sez my executive secretary

[15:59] <TimToady> oh, that's that new one, which has it

[15:59] <TimToady> Glo says III was just PDD-NOS

[15:59] <Juerd> Yea. I was about to mention that the DSM IV *does* have both

[16:00] <TimToady> well, nice that half of silicon valley is no longer "miscellaneous"

[16:00] <Juerd> Hee :)

[16:00] * Juerd got his share of the DSM spectrum too 

[16:01] <TimToady> can't say I haven't noticed.  :)

[16:01] <Juerd> I'm sure you could ;)

[16:01] <Juerd> (qed? :P)

[16:02] <TimToady> laziness=PDD impatience=ADD ... hubris=profit!!!

[16:03] <Juerd> PDD, ADD, HIQ. Common set.

[16:04] <TimToady> actually, hubris is some form of narcissism, I expect

[16:04] <Juerd> Intellectual narcissism, then. 

[16:04] <Juerd> I like the thought.

[16:05] <TimToady> obviously we need to find some place where the normal psychotics can fit in.

[16:05] <Juerd> I found out that my site is on the first google page if you search for "psycho test"

[16:06] <Juerd> Because of a entirely non serious page inspired by Wolverian's image hacking in Pelr.

[16:06] <Juerd> Perl

[16:06] <TimToady> accumulating useless facts is one of the symptoms

[16:07] <Juerd> Things that are useless to some, may be of great value to others :)

[16:07] <TimToady> I've accumulated quite a wide variety of useless facts

[16:07] <Juerd> Doesn't everyone do that?

[16:08] <TimToady> yes, but they accumulate normal useless facts, not abnormal ones.

[16:08] <Juerd> They just haven't discovered Wikipedia yet ;)

[16:09] <Juerd> I all(hate, love) that site.

[16:10] <TimToady> when I was young I read the entire World Book encyclopedia

[16:11] <Juerd> Browsing through the huge three-shelves-occupying encyclopaedia at Grandpa's was why I liked visiting him so much.

[16:12] <Juerd> Now that I have Wikipedia at my disposal, I like going there, for the old guy himself :)

[16:15] <devbot6> dev: WikiStart edited by cmarcelo <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart>

[16:16] <svnbot6> r15245 | moritz++ | moved tests to the appropriate location

[16:18] <Juerd> afk

[16:23] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #10 (task created): Rearrange t/ for reuse with multiple Perl 6 implementations. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/10>

[16:25] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #9 (enhancement closed): Make evalbot report the build failure when it happens. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/9#comment:1>

[16:25] <merlyn> ...  rename t/{xx-uncategorized/pi_internals.t => builtins/math/pi_internals.t} (100%)

[16:25] <merlyn> so says git-svn

[16:27] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #11 (task created): Remove all unconditional SKIP/TODO flags from t/. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/11>

[16:27] <moritz> merlyn: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/14904 is a change of svnbot

[16:27] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 14904 - Pugs - Trac

[16:28] <moritz> s/svnbot/evalbot/

[16:28] <merlyn> why are you poiting that out to me

[16:29] <moritz> merlyn: I understood something wrong ;)

[16:29] *** buetow joined
[16:31] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #10 (task updated): Rearrange t/ for reuse with multiple Perl 6 implementations. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/10#comment:1>

[16:31] *** nwc10 left
[16:33] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #12 (task created): Tests directory scaling problem. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/12>

[16:37] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #13 (task created): Synchronize docs/ with current lang spec. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/13>

[16:40] *** thepler joined
[16:40] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #14 (enhancement created): More information in pugs -V output. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/14>

[16:43] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #15 (task created): Function aliases for math number rounding. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/15>

[16:47] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #16 (task created): Shortcut/script for easy Prelude regeneration. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/16>

[16:49] *** Daveman joined
[16:49] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #17 (task created): Introspection interface. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/17>

[16:51] *** justatheory joined
[16:56] <svnbot6> r15246 | cmarcelo++ | * Add messages on important project_planning/ files pointing to the

[16:56] <svnbot6> r15246 | cmarcelo++ |   Pugs Trac at http://dev.pugscode.org/

[16:56] <lambdabot> Title: Pugs - Trac

[17:03] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #18 (task created): The Pugs Commentary. <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/18>

[17:05] <masak_> audreyt: the logo on http://dev.pugscode.org/query doesn't scale very well. please use this scaled 72x72 version instead: http://masak.org/carl/pugscode-small.png

[17:05] <lambdabot> Title: Custom Query - Pugs - Trac

[17:06] <cmarcelo> pp/TASKS is ported to new ticket system. I skipped that CruiseControl task since #1 looks like a replacement..

[17:06] <moritz> cmarcelo++ ;)

[17:07] *** masak_ is now known as masak

[17:07] <cmarcelo> @tell putter See new ticket #18, maybe is an alternative to your idea to have an TALK page for each .hs file. Or maybe is complementary :)

[17:07] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[17:12] <cmarcelo> It would be nice to have a post on blog.pugscode.org telling the world about the new Trac, the Christmas Graph, and what happened in #perl6 / pugsland since November...

[17:13] * cmarcelo wonders if putter has a blog bit... ;-)

[17:15] <audreyt> masak: I'll fix the logo soon... maketicket for it? or even do one based on (say) aburlison's Perl6Mascot logo?

[17:15] <merlyn> is "stevan working on MetalModel 2.0, based on MiniMetaModel"

[17:15] <merlyn> is Metal there correct?

[17:15] <merlyn> a cute joke?

[17:16] <merlyn> a cross between Mental and Meta, perhaps?

[17:16] <merlyn> or more forged?

[17:16] <audreyt> it's typo.

[17:17] <moritz> somtimes life is simple ;)

[17:17] <audreyt> occam and all :)

[17:18] <merlyn> ok

[17:18] <devbot6> dev: WikiStart edited by cmarcelo <http://dev.pugscode.org/wiki/WikiStart>

[17:18] <merlyn> just wondering how many names I have to still learn. :)

[17:19] <merlyn> I just looked at a_dependency_graph.dot

[17:19] <merlyn> yeow

[17:19] <cmarcelo> devbot6: you should be karma friendly... :P

[17:19] <devbot6> cmarcelo: Error: "you" is not a valid command.

[17:19] <merlyn> "You is" is not proper english. :)

[17:19] <merlyn> you ain't no proper command!

[17:19] <cmarcelo> hehe

[17:20] <merlyn> my momma done told me 'bout creepy bots like you!

[17:27] *** Schwern joined
[17:40] *** buetow joined
[17:42] *** cmarcelo joined
[17:43] <masak> audreyt: ticket submitted

[17:45] <devbot6> dev: Ticket #19 (task created): Replace current logo with a correctly scaled version <http://dev.pugscode.org/ticket/19>

[18:20] <svnbot6> r15247 | lwall++ | contextualizers, subcalls, listops including post-declared, 1st <suppose...>

[18:21] *** xinming joined
[18:36] *** wilx joined
[18:44] <araujo> shay|p6, :-)

[18:50] *** Schwern joined
[18:51] *** iblechbot joined
[19:05] *** justatheory joined
[19:18] <shay> araujo, bro, cÛmo est·s?

[19:30] *** jisom joined
[19:31] *** jisom joined
[19:32] *** jisom joined
[19:41] *** ludan joined
[19:51] *** jisom_ joined
[19:52] *** explorer joined
[19:54] *** elmex joined
[19:55] *** rashakil joined
[20:05] *** Schwern joined
[20:09] *** jisom_ is now known as jisom

[20:16] *** Squern joined
[20:20] *** Dr_Pi joined
[20:26] *** stephang joined
[20:53] *** Aankhen`` joined
[20:54] *** Dr_Pi_ joined
[21:07] *** justatheory joined
[21:21] *** pdcawley joined
[21:33] *** dduncan joined
[21:50] *** akesson joined
[21:50] <akesson> hey

[21:50] <TimToady> hey, hey

[21:51] *** avar joined
[21:52] <akesson> about perlembed, is the the linking dynamic or static against the perl interpreter?

[21:52] <TimToady> usually dynamic, can be static

[21:52] <akesson> we are trying to do some cool stuff here :)

[21:53] <TimToady> where is "here"?

[21:53] <akesson> sweden ;)

[21:53] <TimToady> that would have been my guess, considering your address ends .se

[21:53] <akesson> clever

[21:53] <akesson> :)

[21:54] <akesson> and yea, what is DynaLoader.a ?

[21:54] <TimToady> basically, the difference between miniperl and perl

[21:54] <akesson> so, how to make it dynamic?

[21:55] <TimToady> just need to make sure it builds a .so on most Unixy systems

[21:55] <TimToady> I believe it's a Configure option

[21:55] <akesson> hmm

[21:55] <akesson> ok

[21:56] <TimToady> I note that fedora comes with /usr/lib/perl5/5.8.5/i386-linux-thread-multi/CORE/libperl.so

[21:56] <TimToady> which perl

[21:57] <TimToady> and that's what /usr/bin/perl links against

[21:57] <akesson> so, dynamic is the default?

[21:57] <TimToady> /usr/bin/perl itself being a 14k program.  :)

[21:58] <akesson> thats great!

[21:58] <moritz> du `which perl`

[21:58] <moritz> 1.1M    /usr/bin/perl

[21:58] <moritz> so it's different on debian ;)

[21:59] <TimToady> basically look in perlmain.c to see how perl embeds itself to make the ordinary perl executable.

[22:00] <akesson> we are gonna do code in Perl as some kind of plugin for a C program.

[22:00] <akesson> so, C program runs the Perl code

[22:01] <akesson> pretty nifty

[22:01] <TimToady> is certainly doable

[22:02] * akesson is __Ace__ btw :)

[22:02] <TimToady> ah

[22:02] <akesson> not at home atm so.. :)

[22:02] <TimToady> thought it looked a little familiar

[22:02] <akesson> hehe

[22:02] <akesson> ok, gonna eat now... laters

[22:02] <akesson> my buddy says hello

[22:03] <TimToady> hello, buddy!

[22:03] *** Psyche^ joined
[22:19] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[22:35] *** UWC joined
[22:59] *** Psyche^ joined
[23:02] *** spoop left
[23:07] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[23:12] *** mako132_ joined
[23:13] *** mako132_ joined
[23:15] <akesson> anyone here that has ideas on how to solve nameconflicts when it comes to filesystems?

[23:15] <akesson> besides numbering

[23:17] <moritz> timestamps, hashes

[23:17] <moritz> akesson: or what are you aiming at?

[23:17] <moritz> akesson: and what's bad about numbers?

[23:17] *** xwrn joined
[23:18] <akesson> we are not against numbers.. just wanna see other alternatives

[23:18] <akesson> hashes doesnt solve it btw

[23:19] <moritz> rand() ;)

[23:19] <akesson> :D

[23:30] *** Ziggy6 left
[23:46] *** cookys joined
[23:49] *** TreyHarr1s joined
[23:59] *** stephang joined
