[00:02] *** mjk joined
[00:02] *** _Dr4k0_ joined
[00:02] *** _Dr4k0_ left
[00:21] *** Khisanth joined
[00:29] *** nekokak joined
[00:30] *** amnesiac joined
[00:44] *** miyagawa joined
[01:15] *** SubStack joined
[01:22] *** weinigLap joined
[01:33] *** prism joined
[01:42] *** REPLeffect joined
[01:55] *** stef_ joined
[01:57] *** rhr joined
[02:07] *** nperez joined
[02:58] *** rhandom left
[02:59] *** justatheory joined
[03:06] *** dduncan joined
[03:08] *** mako132_ joined
[03:09] *** bsb joined
[03:24] *** drupek12 joined
[03:27] <prism> bye

[03:33] *** trunix joined
[04:29] *** rhr joined
[04:29] *** drupek12 joined
[04:43] <spinclad> TimToady: r14401++  # very nice and well needed (not my part of it, that was trivial)

[04:57] *** Alias_ joined
[05:07] *** BooK joined
[05:07] *** mr_ank joined
[05:08] *** tewk joined
[05:19] *** penk joined
[05:24] *** jisom joined
[05:31] *** devogon joined
[05:42] *** cognominal joined
[05:44] *** jisom_ joined
[06:00] *** jrockway joined
[06:00] <meppl> good morning

[06:05] <Aankhen``> Hi meppl. :-)

[06:18] *** obvio171_ joined
[06:25] *** Averell joined
[06:42] *** franck__ joined
[07:22] *** dduncan joined
[07:23] *** semifor_ joined
[07:26] *** iblechbot joined
[07:29] *** buetow joined
[07:34] <Tene> Are there currently plans for what happens to perl when TimToady dies?

[07:35] <dduncan> hopefully that will be a long ways off

[07:36] <dduncan> and in the meantime, presumably he is grooming successors and/or others will be able to take over the vision

[07:36] <dduncan> there are other @Larry

[07:37] <Tene> 'kay

[07:37] <Tene> Just curious.

[07:38] <Alias_> I would imagine that ownership reverts to the Perl Foundation and the Foundation Steering Committee would then take over

[07:38] <Alias_> Or something vaguely along those lines

[07:38] <Tene> ahh

[07:39] <dduncan> Perl 6 belongs to TPF already, or some parts

[07:39] <Alias_> There's too many jobs and morgages at stake to not have it comprehensively in place

[07:39] <dduncan> other parts to who wrote them

[07:39] <Alias_> mortgages

[07:39] <dduncan> and I imagine that if people have copyright of anything important, they stated in their wills what might happen with them

[07:40] <Alias_> Or it's open source

[07:40] <dduncan> well that helps too

[07:40] <Alias_> Good point though...

[07:40] <Alias_> I've left instructions with my parents, but hadn't considered copyright assignments etc

[07:40] <dduncan> personally I did explicitly state what happens to my copyrights in my last will update

[07:41] <dduncan> fyi, I can revise later, but in short, my will says my copyrights all go to the FSF, and everything else of mine to my family

[07:41] <dduncan> so that's what's on right now

[07:41] <Alias_> Since audrey stayed at my parent's place I pretty much just gave them "Don't touch the computers, email audrey and she'll let the appropriate people know"

[07:41] <Alias_> Plus sheriff now has root on the server with my repository

[07:41] <Alias_> :)

[07:42] <Alias_> in the sense that it's HIS machine :)

[07:42] <dduncan> especially if recipients are individuals rather than corporate entities like foundations, several should be listed, in case any others predie you

[07:42] <dduncan> fyi, in the long term I'll probably start my own foundation, and then that will be the copyright recipient instead

[07:43] <Alias_> Well, all my stuff is either under the Perl license, or the people that care have the appropriate licenses so they don't need to care

[07:43] *** bsb left
[07:43] <Alias_> Foundations are a bitch

[07:43] <Alias_> ust give it to Richard Stallman, they'll take any old crap

[07:43] <dduncan> well I'm not doing that short term

[07:44] <dduncan> fyi, the foundation I had in mind would have the mission to preserve and spread information

[07:44] *** weinigLap joined
[07:44] <Alias_> which information?

[07:44] <dduncan> it should be different than any currently existing ones

[07:44] <dduncan> anything useful

[07:44] <Alias_> fair enough

[07:44] <dduncan> sort of like the mission of archives

[07:44] <Alias_> Anyways, gotta run

[07:47] <svnbot6> r16511 | rhr++ | [examples/unitsdat-grammar.pl] eliminate repetitive actions (even less repetition would be nice)

[07:52] <Aankhen``> rhr: Have you considered moving unitsdat-grammar.pl under the rules subdir?

[08:01] <rhr> Aankhen``: not sure where it should go.  I intend to turn it into Units.pm, so maybe it should really go under ext/, but until then I'll move it to rules/

[08:01] <Aankhen``> Ah.

[08:05] <Aankhen``> I just put a few other grammars in there, so I thought they could all keep each other company. ^_^

[08:05] <svnbot6> r16512 | rhr++ | [unitsdat-grammar.pl] moved to examples/rules for now.  fix a typo.

[08:05] <rhr> I'll have to look at them :)

[08:05] <Aankhen``> Please do, any feedback would be appreciated.

[08:18] *** the_dormant joined
[08:31] *** dduncan left
[09:06] *** nipotan is now known as nipotaway

[09:11] <moritz> is there a web interface like trac or so for the specs repository? if yes: where?

[09:33] *** renormalist joined
[09:35] *** aukjan|gone is now known as aukjan

[10:09] *** weinigLap_ joined
[10:12] *** trunix joined
[10:14] *** weinigLap joined
[10:24] *** kanru joined
[10:40] *** prism joined
[10:42] *** riffraff joined
[10:42] <riffraff> hi everyone

[10:44] <riffraff> the PIR backend is utterly broken? I ws trying to run pugs -CPIR on a simple for loop and it generates a _huge_ output wihile -BPIR fails with "too many errors"

[10:50] *** args is now known as rgs

[11:04] <moritz> riffraff: yes, it's broken :(

[11:05] <riffraff> nice to know

[11:06] <riffraff> I can delete parrot completely I believe :)

[11:24] *** the_dormant joined
[11:29] *** jurosz joined
[11:29] *** jurosz left
[11:31] *** Homer_ joined
[11:31] *** Homer_ left
[11:46] *** trunix_ joined
[12:04] *** drupek12 joined
[12:10] *** chris2 joined
[12:26] *** penk left
[12:27] *** jerrylee joined
[12:47] *** jerrylee_ joined
[13:03] *** Psyche^ joined
[13:06] *** stef_ joined
[13:20] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[13:22] *** baest joined
[13:40] *** rindolf joined
[13:42] *** vel joined
[14:01] <rindolf> Hi all.

[14:02] <moritz> hi rindolf ;)

[14:02] <moritz> rindolf: what's up?

[14:02] <rindolf> moritz: I'm fine. Stayed up all night and chatted on the IRC.

[14:02] <rindolf> moritz: however, in the afternoon I was able to get some sleep.

[14:03] <rindolf> moritz: and I did some Cognitive Psychology exercises.

[14:04] <moritz> rindolf: any answers from your TPF funding queries?

[14:04] <rindolf> moritz: no, not yet.

[14:05] <BooK> sleep is good

[14:05] <rindolf> moritz: not even a confirmation.

[14:05] <BooK> I wish I had more

[14:05] <rindolf> BooK: yes, it is.

[14:05] <rindolf> BooK: lately I've been staying up late and waking up lately.

[14:05] <rindolf> moritz: maybe I should ask the people on irc.perl.org about it.

[14:06] <moritz> rindolf: or just give them a bit more time - after all it's a foundation ;)

[14:06] <rindolf> moritz: yes.

[14:06] <rindolf> moritz: well, I just want to know if they received them.

[14:07] <rindolf> moritz: for some reason Ovid is rarely on IM.

[14:07] <rindolf> That sucks.

[14:07] <rindolf> I have MSN, Jabber, AIM, ICQ and Yahoo and keep them connected all the time.

[14:07] <rindolf> And they are publicised on my site.

[14:08] <rindolf> I got contacted by a Chinese spammer on MSN. Had to block him.

[14:09] <moritz> and are you still able to work? even my few irc channels decrease my productivity significantly ;-)

[14:10] <rindolf> moritz: yes.

[14:10] <rindolf> moritz: IRC tends to be more distracting than IM.

[14:10] <rindolf> moritz: which is why I often keep it off.

[14:17] <BooK> yeah, IM sits quietly, and is silent when nobody talks to you

[14:17] <BooK> in irc, there always someone with something to say :)

[14:17] *** ofer joined
[14:18] *** rhandom joined
[14:27] *** franck___ joined
[14:32] *** nothingmuch joined
[14:35] *** aukjan is now known as aukjan|gone

[14:50] *** isaacd joined
[14:50] *** franck__ joined
[14:51] *** iblechbot joined
[14:55] *** REPLeffect joined
[15:05] <moritz> @tell fglock do you have any linkable web page on mp6/kp6?

[15:05] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[15:05] *** penk joined
[15:07] *** rashakil_ joined
[15:24] *** elmex joined
[15:27] *** cernd left
[15:35] *** stef__ joined
[15:43] *** toshinori joined
[15:51] *** weinigLap joined
[15:55] <svnbot6> r16513 | moritz++ | [irclog] minor modifications

[15:55] <svnbot6> r16513 | moritz++ |  * added a list of links for #perl6 irc logs

[15:55] <svnbot6> r16513 | moritz++ |  * set mime-type for all .tmpl file to text/html

[15:59] *** chris2 joined
[16:01] *** wesley joined
[16:14] <svnbot6> r16514 | moritz++ | t/operators/relational.t: fixed smartlink for cmp (pointed to eqv before)

[16:16] *** isaacd_ joined
[16:37] *** justatheory joined
[16:42] *** SubStack joined
[17:09] *** iblechbot joined
[17:25] *** franck__ joined
[17:27] *** Psyche^ joined
[17:35] *** wesley_ joined
[17:40] *** ozo_ joined
[17:44] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[17:53] *** kanru joined
[17:58] *** vel joined
[18:03] *** ozo joined
[18:18] *** buetow joined
[18:18] *** wesley__ joined
[18:23] *** xern joined
[18:25] *** stef_ joined
[18:31] *** Southen joined
[18:31] *** Southen_ joined
[18:35] *** jisom joined
[18:35] <svnbot6> r16515 | moritz++ | added t/builtins/math/complex.t with tests for cis and unpolar builtins

[18:35] *** dduncan joined
[18:38] *** fglock joined
[18:41] <fglock> moritz: re mp6/kp6 page, no

[18:41] <lambdabot> fglock: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[18:43] <fglock> I have time for Perl 6 again - I just presented my talk

[18:43] <moritz> which talk?

[18:44] <japhb> fglock: how did it go?

[18:44] *** scw joined
[18:45] <fglock> japhb: very nice; the person that presented with me is a specialist on stem cells

[18:45] *** stef_ joined
[18:45] <japhb> fglock: cool beans

[18:45] <japhb> What is your actual $day_job, anyway?

[18:46] <fglock> I work in a Technological Research Institute, in a University

[18:46] <fglock> http://www.pucrs.br/ideia/

[18:46] <lambdabot> Title: PUCRS :: IdÙèøΩxE9ia - Instituto de Pesquisa & Desenvolvimento

[18:47] *** wesley___ joined
[18:47] <japhb> What does a TRI actually mean?  That you are a grad student?

[18:48] <PerlJam> japhb: He's a full-time academic no matter what else he is  :)

[18:48] <japhb> PerlJam: nodnod

[18:48] <fglock> no, I'm a technician; but I'm also a PhD student (unrelated)

[18:48] <japhb> Ah, got it?

[18:49] <japhb> unrelated meaning entirely different fields, or same field just different projects?

[18:51] <fglock> entirely different fields; work is CS related, study is Biomedical Engineering/Neurology

[18:51] *** prly joined
[18:52] * japhb is duly impressed

[18:53] <PerlJam> I did biological engineering for a while ... but 4 kids is enough for me  ;-)

[18:54] <fglock> making 4 kids is some form of biological engineering

[18:56] *** theorbtwo joined
[18:56] <svnbot6> r16516 | moritz++ | added t/builtins/strings/p5chop.t

[18:56] *** lisppaste3 joined
[18:57] <fglock> I studied Medicine, but then made a Msc in CS because that's what I wanted to work on

[18:57] *** thepler joined
[18:57] <moritz> in t/unspecced/chop.t there are two specced and a few unspecced chop tests...

[18:58] <moritz> should I just leave them that way, or move the tests that cover the spec to builtins/strings/chop.t?

[18:59] <fglock> moritz: probably move

[19:02] <moritz> fglock: ok, thanks

[19:05] *** renormalist joined
[19:09] <svnbot6> r16517 | moritz++ | moved the spec covered parts of t/unspecced/chop.t 

[19:09] <svnbot6> r16517 | moritz++ | to t/builtins/string/chop.t

[19:10] <fglock> re mp6/kp6/v6.pm - I'm trying to unify into a single perl6-in-perl6 project; v6.pm would be 6-in-6 with a p5 backend

[19:11] <renormalist> fglock: do you blog or write about this project somewhere? I'm interested but not enough on irc to follow.

[19:14] *** stef__ joined
[19:15] <japhb> fglock: Just so you know, many people give you karma, but I actually want to say "Thanks.  What you've been working on is very cool and important, and helped keep energy up when life was assaulting some of the team.  So, again, thank you."

[19:16] <moritz> perlbot: karma fglock

[19:16] <perlbot> Karma for fglock: 201

[19:16] <fglock> renormalist: there is http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/v6/v6-KindaPerl6/docs/FAQ.pod - but it's a bit old

[19:17] <moritz> which is, despite its name, not in POD ;-)

[19:17] <fglock> japhb: I've been a bit burn out lately, actually - but I think it's over :)

[19:18] <renormalist> fglock++

[19:18] <fglock> moritz: oops - right

[19:18] <renormalist> fglock: maybe you can share some milestones in thinking on pugs.blogs.com. I looooove to read Perl6 related articles there.

[19:19] <japhb> fglock: well, pushing on this stuff while you had both a day job and a PhD to worry about can be tiring.  But you did so, and I for one am impressed how long you lasted!

[19:19] <renormalist> fglock: of course, only if you have fun writing about it. At least I imagine I'm not the only one who had fnu reading it.

[19:19] <fglock> japhb: I wish there was more integration between the Perl 6 teams, but I'm not sure we can fix this through IRC

[19:20] <renormalist> fglock: I understand and it's ok

[19:21] <japhb> fglock: agreed.  Part of the problem seems to be that many of the core team members have had streaks of bad luck on the RL side.  I can't even count how many times I've read the cabal phone call notes and seen one or more people say "Well, life got in the way all week ...."

[19:22] <japhb> And it's hard to communicate when you can't spend much time on the project at all.

[19:22] <fglock> renormalist: I find it a problem discussing plans in a public place, because it brings non-productive comments like "how about parrot" and such

[19:23] <renormalist> fglock: and indeed you are right. people like results. pugs.blogs.com is a place to consume results. so I agree to your strategy.

[19:24] *** wesley____ joined
[19:24] <fglock> otoh, 6-in-6 will only have results when it's ready, so it's a paradox

[19:25] <renormalist> anyway, maybe next time you can pose some cool stuff, remember us perl6 blog consumers :-)

[19:25] <moritz> well, STD.pm is a step towards 6-in-6, and moste people quite like the idea ;)

[19:26] *** _bernhard joined
[19:27] <japhb> A lot of the issue is just keeping the community excited, feeling like there is momentum.  Just being vocal about any progress being made tends to get people more excited and interested, and becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy

[19:30] <japhb> The obvious comment at this point is "Gee Geoff, why don't you do it if you think it's such a good idea?"  And the answer is honestly one of time -- not that I have none, but that I am spending it all on preparing for when things are farther along, rather than working on the current state of things.  My hope is that my choice turns out valuable in the end and makes better use of my skill mix ....

[19:30] <renormalist> japhb: agreed. unfortunately it's quite difficult to get foot in the door on any non-perl related media/press. I currently think, we need to spread the word outside the current perl6 community and outside the perl community. Which is difficult because most of them just can't imagin what happens here

[19:31] <japhb> Nodnod.

[19:31] <fglock> I was reading the archived Perl 6 mailing list from near aug-2000, yesterday 

[19:31] <japhb> That will get a LOT easier when 6.283 is out, methinks

[19:32] <japhb> Of course, first we have to get 6.28 out.

[19:32] <moritz> renormalist: the problem with spreading the word is that people will say "I want to try it", and then discover that they need GHC to compile pugs, that kp6 doesn't have much runtime (I think) and parrot doesn't optimize very much

[19:32] *** stef_ joined
[19:34] <moritz> renormalist: so I do appreiciate your effort to concentrate on features that are implemented

[19:34] <japhb> moritz: right.  And before 6.283, the "killer feature" that I think people will be willing to start using *even before it's optimized* isn't there yet.  What currently works I think we can all agree is damned cool, but it's not enough to get the attention of, say, a died-in-the-wool Python addict.

[19:34] <moritz> in your article, that is

[19:34] <fglock> it would take a big engineering effort to integrate together the best of each project 

[19:34] <renormalist> moritz: GHC isn't such a big problem. It can be propagated with "you always wanted a haskell, didn't you?" The "want to try" is more an aspect between Propaganda an reality, so IMHO ...

[19:34] * japhb wishes this was all as simple as applying cash, because then we could spend our efforts on getting funding.

[19:35] <moritz> japhb: well, audreyt told us she'd work more on pugs if she got paid for it

[19:35] <renormalist> moritz: ...  it's important to only write about things that currently really works in Pugs. Not a single feature that doesn't work may be named

[19:35] <fglock> but cash is good anyway :)

[19:35] <moritz> japhb: of course that's not all there is to it, but it would be a start

[19:36] <japhb> moritz: I would believe that, except that what's kept her out of the game (at least publicly) has had nothing to do with that.

[19:36] <moritz> japhb: I know

[19:38] <japhb> We also have to deal with the now-infamous Debian problem where they attempted to pay a few contributors full time, and a whole bunch of other contributors quit in protest.

[19:39] <japhb> Of course, that may have been a "devil in the details" issue.  IIRC the "buy Damian for a year" thing went over pretty well.

[19:39] <renormalist> in my opinion it is time to get some CPAN authors to start try porting their modules to Perl 6. that yould get quite a lot momentum. because we have of current cool and working features in Pugs

[19:40] <moritz> japhb: Debian is specifically fond on their free software philosophy, IMHO much more than most perl folks

[19:40] <moritz> japhb: and nobody complained about the microgrants as well

[19:40] *** the_dormant joined
[19:40] <fglock> re available time - I don't really work many hours in Pugs, except when fixing bugs

[19:40] <moritz> renormalist: right, but there is no mechanism on CPAN to distribute that

[19:40] <japhb> moritz: right, but as I recall the Debian issue was "We're all trying to get this release out the door ... why is their task more important than mine?"  Almost jealousy, but I'm not sure that was it.  Righteous indignation?

[19:41] <renormalist> svn checkout pugs/ext. That's enough to start. IMHO, of course

[19:41] <renormalist> moritz: svn checkout pugs/ext. That's enough to start. IMHO, of course

[19:41] *** wesley_____ joined
[19:41] <moritz> japhb: the problem was that it was officially outside of debian, but started by the DPL at that time (aj)

[19:42] <japhb> renormalist: I can say from personal porting experience that the Pugsbugs are frequent enough to make some of the porting a real slog rather than -Ofun right now.  I understand that a lot of my particular issues will go away shortly after 6.28, but again, we're still not there yet.

[19:42] <moritz> japhb: and that caused a lot of bad press, because it smelled like deceit or something

[19:42] <japhb> moritz: I stand corrected.  I only saw a few bits here and there.

[19:43] <moritz> japhb: but of course the TPF needs to be carefull with founds - I think that microgrant thing was a good way of doing it

[19:43] <renormalist> Debian is generally a a more complicated project. Much larger plus its own democracy plus freedom plus a hard world

[19:43] <japhb> moritz: I agree

[19:43] <fglock> re bad press - I guess that's why #parrot is not logged

[19:43] <renormalist> so I think problems in Debian were "normal"

[19:43] <japhb> fglock: which seems a crying shame to me.

[19:43] <moritz> fglock: the official reason is different, and I'm inclined to believe it ;)

[19:44] <japhb> moritz: which is?

[19:44] <moritz> for design questions there is #parrotsketch

[19:44] <moritz> and #parrot should be informal, with more privacy

[19:45] <moritz> so it's not considered important

[19:45] <moritz> but they are rethinking their no-logging policy, Coke told me

[19:45] <japhb> nodnod

[19:45] <japhb> I can't imagine that people are very good at keeping design discussion out of #parrot.

[19:45] <japhb> It will just slip in.

[19:45] <fglock> hmm - design questions - I've got some of these :)

[19:46] <japhb> heh

[19:46] *** wesley______ joined
[19:46] <moritz> japhb: when I was in #parrot, there were actually many implementation questions, discussions about regressions etc...

[19:46] <japhb> nodnod, I suspected as much

[19:46] <moritz> japhb: but not many or even none relevant design quetions

[19:48] <moritz> I didn't understand most if it because I have no idea of parrot's internals, so left again ;)

[19:48] <japhb> I don't understand separating design and implementation.

[19:49] <japhb> They are inextricably intertwined

[19:49] <moritz> go and look for yourself ;)

[19:50] <moritz> perhaps I ill-judged it because I was used #perl6, which has quite a lot of design discussions ;)

[19:50] <japhb> nodnod

[19:51] <moritz> anyway, /me is reading "yet another haskell tutorial", in the hope that I'll learn it before perl6 is fully implemented in perl6 ;-)

[19:51] <fglock> re design - I'd like to have reviews of the kp6 architecture

[19:51] <moritz> fglock: ask on slashdot *SCNR* ;)

[19:52] <japhb> I gave Haskell a try -- and discovered it and my brain just don't fit.

[19:52] *** obvio171_ is now known as obvio171

[19:52] <japhb> $Larry apparently had the same problem, which made me feel a bit better.

[19:53] <moritz> I learned a bit of scheme back in school, I hope that will help ;)

[19:53] <japhb> Scheme wasn't too bad.  A little odd, mind you, but not too bad.

[19:54] <moritz> it was a CS course, and the teacher didn't want that those with programming experience to have an advantage ;)

[19:54] <fglock> moritz: would you like to work on perl6-in-perl6? 

[19:54] <japhb> heh

[19:55] <Tene> moritz: what if they had prior scheme experience? ;)

[19:55] <moritz> Tene: nobody had, we were only 9 or 10 in that course

[19:55] <moritz> fglock: I'd like to, but I've never even touched a compiler before

[19:55] <moritz> fglock: and my understanding of perl 6 and 5 are not that good either

[19:55] <fglock> it doesn't bite (much)

[19:56] <moritz> that's what they all say

[19:56] <moritz> my next step would be to look at Prelude.pm if I can implement a few simple math functions, like cis or unpolar or some such

[19:57] <moritz> fglock: if you have a better idea, you're welcome to tell me ;)

[19:59] <renormalist> pugs question: is ext/ only for working modules and I have to start them soewhere els or do I start in ext/ also if they are not running yet

[19:59] <renormalist> ?

[20:00] <moritz> renormalist: they should compile at least, and all tests that fail should be marked :todo

[20:00] <japhb> I think it's safe to start there, renormalist

[20:00] <fglock> moritz: maybe I should learn Haskell too

[20:00] <moritz> maybe ;)

[20:01] <fglock> renormalist: for really experimental stuff, you can use misc/pX/Common/

[20:01] <renormalist> m'kay, thx

[20:07] <svnbot6> r16518 | moritz++ | added t/builtins/strings/p5chomp.t

[20:07] * moritz seeks volunteers to write a test for unicode normalization ;-)

[20:08] *** zperl joined
[20:08] <moritz> or, even better, many of them ;)

[20:13] <fglock> @tell audreyt: do you think it would make sense to start some bootstrapping work for pugs?

[20:13] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[20:13] <rhr> moritz: where is unicode normalization stuff specced?  pugs now has working .codes and .graphs so it would be pretty easy to write some simple tests.

[20:14] <moritz> rhr: in S29, "normalize"

[20:14] <fglock> rhr: see "normalize" in http://svn.openfoundry.org/pugs/docs/Perl6/Spec/Functions.pod

[20:14] <fglock> heh

[20:14] <moritz> rhr: it basically refers to the unicode specs

[20:15] <rhr> moritz: thanks, looking

[20:16] *** justatheory joined
[20:17] <renormalist> how are the modules in ext/ cpompiled/tested? Do I use "perl Makefile.PL" or "pugs Makefile.PL"?

[20:18] <renormalist> and whats that WritePugs(6) in the Makefile,PL. Is it a feature of EU::MM for Pugs (if its done with Perl5 )

[20:18] <moritz> I think you call "make test" or "make smoke" from the root directory

[20:18] <renormalist> in pugs' root dir?

[20:18] <moritz> yes

[20:18] <renormalist> or the module ones?

[20:18] <moritz> there no Makefile in ext/

[20:19] <moritz> s/there/there is/

[20:19] <renormalist> yes, but I dont know how to generate my own. 

[20:19] <renormalist> from .PL

[20:19] <renormalist> I get a Makefile, but

[20:19] <renormalist> the following make doesnt work

[20:20] <moritz> renormalist: I'd suggest to take a copy of a working module directory and just change the names ;)

[20:21] <moritz> actually the build system is deeper magic than I want to understand ;)

[20:32] <rhr> looks like I'd better implement .normalize etc. first before writing tests for it :) I'll throw it on my queue as I expect to get into unicode stuff fairly soon in my work on units anyway

[20:34] <rhr> although anyone else is welcome to do it first :)  Prelude.pm already has a list of combining chars, although it should be checked for completeness

[20:34] *** wesley_______ joined
[20:34] *** rodi joined
[20:36] * moritz is terrified of that unicode beast

[20:36] <fglock> rhr: Unicode-Normalize from CPAN may help

[20:37] <fglock> pugs uses perl5 strings, afaik

[20:41] *** wesley________ joined
[20:43] <rhr> fglock: thanks, I'll look at it.

[20:49] <fglock> home &

[20:49] * renormalist needs sleep. More. Generally.

[20:52] *** SubStack joined
[20:55] <moritz> enough new test cases for me today

[21:06] *** REPLeffect joined
[21:19] *** the_dormant joined
[21:22] <svnbot6> r16519 | moritz++ | perl6.vim: added "is deep" trait and unicode normalization builtins

[21:38] *** isaacd__ joined
[21:39] *** rhandom left
[21:42] <moritz> S05:479 says "User-defined modifiers will be possible:" - any idea how that would be specified?

[21:44] *** justatheory joined
[21:47] <dduncan> regarding testing ext/

[21:47] <dduncan> while you have to do Pugs' perl Makefile.PL and make first

[21:48] <dduncan> you can subsequently cd ext/<project>/ and just say make test there

[21:48] <dduncan> I do that all the time when testing QDRDBMS changes, that is just doing make test in its own folder

[21:49] <dduncan> if you are simply adding a new ext/ project, then you'll have to run Pugs' Makefile.PL again but otherwise its make isn't necessary for the ext/ make test to work

[21:51] <moritz> dduncan: good to know - maybe we need a "how do create my module" FAQ entry in Hack.pod or something

[21:52] <dduncan> similarly, you'll have to run the Makefile.PL again if you add or remove any lib/ under your project, so the generated makefile will propagate those to blib6 on make test also

[21:52] <dduncan> or that is add/remove anything under lib/

[21:53] <dduncan> just editing files requires do remakefile and neither does adding tests

[21:55] *** prly_ joined
[21:55] <rhr> moritz: S05:3223

[21:56] *** penk joined
[21:56] <moritz> *looking*

[21:57] <moritz> rhr: thanks

[21:58] <rhr> np, I was reading S05 earlier today :)

[21:59] <moritz> parts of it read like poetry ;)

[22:08] <meppl> good night

[22:09] *** IllvilJa joined
[22:14] *** justatheory joined
[22:25] *** justatheory joined
[22:38] *** polettix joined
[22:53] *** rfordinal joined
[23:02] *** SubStack joined
[23:06] *** Aankhen`` joined
[23:07] *** Steve_p joined
[23:19] <Aankhen``> 'Tsup.

[23:19] <Aankhen``> </dude>

[23:25] *** ozo joined
[23:27] *** Limbic_Region joined
[23:29] <svnbot6> r16520 | rhr++ | [unitsdat-grammar.pl] Now a module.  Add UnitsPerl grammar for e.g. $foo.:as<m/s**2>

[23:29] <svnbot6> r16520 | rhr++ | Misc typos and fixes.

[23:30] *** justatheory joined
[23:30] <svnbot6> r16521 | rhr++ | unitsdat-grammar.pl is now unitsdat-grammar.pm

[23:34] *** justatheory joined
[23:36] *** buetow joined
[23:36] *** prly joined
[23:41] <Caelum> how much of parrot can pugs use?

[23:43] <Caelum> getting an error from make in pugs, "Setup: error reading ./.setup-config; run "setup configure" command?"

[23:45] <moritz> Caelum: the parrot backend is broken atm :(

[23:45] <Caelum> ahh

[23:47] <moritz> Caelum: if you ask another question, somebody will offer you a commit bit ;)

[23:47] <moritz> unless you already have one, of course ;)

[23:50] <Caelum> hehe

[23:50] <Limbic_Region> salutations all

[23:51] <Caelum> hey LR :)

[23:51] * Limbic_Region is just checking to see if pugs compiles with Win32/MinGW yet

[23:52] <Aankhen``> NOOOO DONT

[23:52] <Aankhen``> It compiles with MSVC++, FWIW.

[23:52] <Aankhen``> Though I haven't tried VS.NET 2005.

[23:54] <Caelum> oh I see why it doesn't compile, "Setup: cannot satisfy dependency network-any" what does that mean?

[23:54] <moritz> pugs needs a C compiler?

[23:54] <moritz> Caelum: missing haskell library

[23:54] <Caelum> ahh

[23:55] <moritz> Caelum: what OS are you using?

[23:55] <moritz> for debian that's libghc6-network-dev

[23:58] <Caelum> just installed that, thank you.

[23:58] <Caelum> BTW, is perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=... really broken like it says in the INSTALL?

[23:58] <moritz> it works good enough to build working debian packages from it

[23:58] <Limbic_Region> @tell audreyt the Win32/MinGW problem with the build is still a problem as of r16520

[23:58] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[23:59] <Tene> Caelum: do you have a commit bit yet?

[23:59] * Limbic_Region wanders off

[23:59] <moritz> and it's bad enough that I wouldn't dare a "make install" ;)

[23:59] <Aankhen``> Caelum: If you mean the thing where it overwrites your installed Perl 5 modules, yes.

[23:59] <Aankhen``> I learned the hard way that it does apply.

[23:59] <Aankhen``> Had to give up and reinstall Perl from scratch.

[23:59] <Caelum> ouch

