[00:23] <pugs_svnbot> r17674 | lwall++ | [STD] Trying out new <+ws> notation; tracing improvements

[00:23] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17674

[00:23] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17674 - Pugs - Trac

[00:28] *** kanru left
[00:38] *** Blwood left
[00:38] *** Blwood joined
[00:44] *** devogon left
[00:57] *** nipotaway is now known as nipotan

[01:00] *** justatheory left
[01:02] *** shachaf left
[01:11] *** drupek1260 left
[01:18] *** drupek1260 joined
[02:00] *** sunnavy joined
[02:09] *** REPLeffect left
[02:17] *** REPLeffect joined
[02:18] *** Limbic_Region left
[02:20] *** hcchien joined
[02:26] *** dduncan joined
[02:36] *** buetow left
[02:54] *** justatheory joined
[03:08] *** Jamtech joined
[03:09] *** Jamtech left
[03:20] *** subichan left
[03:27] *** thoughtpolice joined
[03:33] *** cmarcelo left
[03:41] *** TimToady_ joined
[03:41] *** TimToady left
[03:43] *** amnesiac joined
[04:09] *** shachaf joined
[04:31] *** mr_ank left
[04:48] *** thoughtpolice left
[05:13] *** masak joined
[05:38] *** devogon joined
[05:38] <masak> morning :)

[05:40] <agentzh> morning, masak

[05:40] <masak> morning, agentzh 

[05:40] *** Aankhen`` joined
[05:45] *** Ashizawa joined
[05:47] *** agentzh left
[05:49] *** lambdabot left
[05:50] *** lambdabot joined
[05:51] *** justatheory left
[05:57] *** REPLeffect_ joined
[05:57] *** agentzh joined
[05:58] *** lumi joined
[06:01] *** REPLeffect left
[06:01] *** REPLeffect_ is now known as REPLeffect

[06:01] <moritz_> good morning *

[06:01] <masak> morning, moritz_ 

[06:10] *** weinig left
[06:18] *** zamolxes left
[06:27] *** amnesiac left
[06:36] *** weinig joined
[06:36] *** weinig left
[06:36] *** jisom joined
[06:36] *** weinig joined
[06:47] *** cognominal_ left
[06:51] *** elmex joined
[07:25] *** masak left
[07:25] *** marmic left
[07:25] *** iblechbot joined
[07:27] *** dduncan left
[07:37] *** marmic joined
[07:44] *** masak joined
[07:45] *** franck___ joined
[07:52] *** weinig is now known as weinig|zZz

[07:56] *** amnesiac joined
[07:56] *** amnesiac left
[07:56] <masak> can anyone tell me a little of what the plans for 6.28.0 are?

[07:58] <moritz_> http://dev.pugscode.org/roadmap says "objects"

[07:58] <lambdabot> Title: Roadmap - Pugs - Trac

[07:58] <masak> right

[07:58] <moritz_> which would be mostly audreyt++'s MO branch

[07:58] <masak> ah

[07:58] <masak> tell me about that

[07:59] <masak> it's something local on audreyt++'s computer?

[07:59] <moritz_> yes

[08:00] <moritz_> wait a second...

[08:00] <moritz_> http://moritz.faui2k3.org/irclog/out.pl?channel=perl6;date=2007-05-17#i_18608

[08:01] <lambdabot> Title: IRC log for #perl6, 2007-05-17, http://tinyurl.com/29p8sk

[08:01] *** michaelkohwj joined
[08:01] <masak> oh, so she basically has the MO branch ready?

[08:02] <moritz_> seems like, yes

[08:02] <masak> almost four months ago...

[08:05] *** felipe left
[08:06] <michaelkohwj> hi all, is this the right place to express opinons about perl 6? (as oppossed to development discussion)

[08:06] <masak> michaelkohwj: sure

[08:07] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: depends on the opinions ;)

[08:07] <wolverian> michaelkohwj, only if they're correct opinions...

[08:07] <moritz_> "p6 is bloatware and dead" is something we hear too often to think it's still fun ;)

[08:07] <pugs_svnbot> r17675 | sunnavy++ | more "my" tests

[08:07] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17675

[08:07] <masak> moritz_, wolverian: don't be silly, we need all the opinions, not just the correct ones

[08:07] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17675 - Pugs - Trac

[08:08] <masak> moritz_: we need people come here and tell us that so that we can change their minds before they tell too many other people

[08:08] <moritz_> masak: #perl6 eq brain washing? ;-)

[08:08] <wolverian> masak, it was a joke, I just forgot the :)

[08:08] <masak> for starters, how can it be bloatware if it's dead? :)

[08:08] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: go ahead ;)

[08:08] <michaelkohwj> ok

[08:08] <masak> wolverian: I gathered. but still

[08:08] <wolverian> masak, so, please, opinions are great. 

[08:09] <wolverian> er

[08:09] <wolverian> that was to michaelkohwj 

[08:09] <michaelkohwj> wolverian: thanks, i didn't want to go OT

[08:09] <masak> moritz_: brainwashing in a very broad sense, yes. but so is everything else

[08:09] <moritz_> brainwashing++

[08:09] <moritz_> erm

[08:10] <moritz_> forget it ;)

[08:10] <michaelkohwj> i think that sigils in perl 6 should remain the same as perl 5- yes, you guys want to change them to make perl more english-like, but-

[08:10] <michaelkohwj> 1. this will make life hard for people porting code to perl 6

[08:10] <michaelkohwj> 2. what's so difficult about perl 5 sigils? the sigil stands for "what type of variable do you want to get?"

[08:11] <masak> michaelkohwj: what do you mean by "sigils"? $@%& ?

[08:11] <michaelkohwj> i.e. @array1 = (0) x 10;

[08:11] <masak> ok

[08:11] <michaelkohwj> in per 6: to access element 0, use @array1[0]

[08:11] <masak> yes

[08:11] <michaelkohwj> in perl 5, $array1[0]

[08:11] <masak> I, for one, like the change

[08:11] <michaelkohwj> see, in perl 5, the $ says that i want a scalar

[08:11] <masak> I understand the idea with the p5 way

[08:11] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: r1 no. 1: that can be automated for 99% of all cases

[08:12] <wolverian> michaelkohwj, I think it's a bit too late to change that. did you find the motivation for the change in the relevant apocalypse? I'm sure TimToady_ will fill in if the reasons aren't documented yet very well.

[08:12] <masak> I think the reasons are fairly well documented

[08:12] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: re no. 2: I don't think it's difficult, but beginners tend to have problems with error messages...

[08:13] <moritz_> they have a $foo[3], and the compiler complains about @foo not being declared, but they never even typed @foo!

[08:13] <masak> michaelkohwj: given that the p6 way of treating sigils is already more powerful and consistent, I suggest you try it for a while if you haven't already

[08:15] <michaelkohwj> TimToady_: sigil

[08:15] <michaelkohwj> oops, sorry

[08:15] <masak> :)

[08:16] <masak> michaelkohwj: do you have Pugs installed?

[08:16] <moritz_> http://dev.perl.org/perl6/doc/design/apo/A02.html contains a bit of explanation

[08:16] <lambdabot> Title: Apocalypse 2: Bits and Pieces - perl6:

[08:16] <moritz_> though just a little bit, really ;)

[08:17] <michaelkohwj> masak: nope.. 

[08:17] <masak> michaelkohwj: you should. it's a blast

[08:17] <moritz_> #pugs say "We have evalbots as well"

[08:17] <exp_evalbot> OUTPUT[We have evalbots as well‚ê§]

[08:20] <michaelkohwj> guys, see the latest xkcd, its a coincidence that it's about perl 6 too

[08:20] <rgs> is it ? :)

[08:21] <michaelkohwj> rgs: if you intepret it as such

[08:21] <michaelkohwj> 'that way

[08:21] <moritz_> I didn't recognize it

[08:21] <moritz_> and I'm pretty much Perl 6 aware, I think

[08:22] <michaelkohwj> oh no

[08:22] <michaelkohwj> oops

[08:22] * michaelkohwj blushes

[08:22] <michaelkohwj> ignore the above

[08:23] <moritz_>  /ignore the above

[08:28] <masak> :)

[08:28] <michaelkohwj> i misread that

[08:28] <michaelkohwj> never mind

[08:29] <masak> I guess the existence of audreyt++'s MO branch means I shouldn't spend time hacking the OO parts of Pugs

[08:29] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: would like to help with Perl 6, by any chance?

[08:29] <moritz_> s/would/would you/

[08:29] <masak> moritz_: aw, just give him the commit bit :)

[08:30] <michaelkohwj> moritz_: how? i just started programming in perl a week ago

[08:30] <masak> michaelkohwj: /msg your email address, and we'll send you the privs

[08:30] <michaelkohwj> privs

[08:30] <michaelkohwj> ?

[08:31] <masak> access to the repository of pugs and other things p6

[08:31] <masak> that's write access, by the way

[08:31] <michaelkohwj> masak: not like i know how to do compiler/intepreter creation

[08:32] <masak> some of us do, most don't

[08:32] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: I wrote a summary of what can be done here: http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=628746

[08:32] <lambdabot> Title: Getting Involved with Perl 6

[08:32] <masak> moritz_++

[08:33] *** iblechbot left
[08:33] <sunnavy> moritz_++

[08:34] <michaelkohwj> masak: alright then, ill try out the non-compiler-programming stuff

[08:34] <masak> michaelkohwj: cool

[08:36] <sunnavy> michaelkohwj: welcome, :-)

[08:37] <masak> hm, http://commitbit.pugscode.org is not responding

[08:38] <michaelkohwj> masak: yes

[08:38] <masak> michaelkohwj: "yes", as in "yes, it is?"

[08:39] <masak> not here, it isn't

[08:39] <michaelkohwj> masak: yes, it is not responding

[08:39] <masak> ah, ok :)

[08:40] <masak> everyone, how to add a committer without commitbit.pugscode.org?

[08:40] <moritz_> I don't think that's possible atm

[08:40] <masak> that's terrible news

[08:41] <moritz_> I already asked obra++ if there's a command line interface, but that doesn't seem to be the case

[08:41] <michaelkohwj> masak: its ok

[08:41] <masak> :(

[08:41] <masak> michaelkohwj: I'm going to have to stall indefinitely on your commit bit, it seems

[08:41] <masak> but I'll keep the email address you sent me

[08:42] <masak> and since I'll be hanging here almost daily, I'll know when commitbit is back up

[08:42] <masak> one of these days you'll get an email with commit rights :)

[08:43] <masak> in the meantime, just hand patches to someone else (hardly an optimal solution, I know)

[08:43] <masak> who hosts http://commitbit.pugscode.org? why is it down? how many people are working on getting it back up?

[08:44] <moritz_> masak: it's hosted on feather, and the situation will improve with the hardware upgrade Juerd++ promised recently

[08:45] <masak> moritz_: eh.

[08:45] <masak> why not now?

[08:46] <moritz_> don't know - http://moritz.faui2k3.org/irclog/out.pl?channel=perl6;date=2007-09-03#i_95978

[08:46] <lambdabot> Title: IRC log for #perl6, 2007-09-03, http://tinyurl.com/23aag5

[08:47] <moritz_> hey, feather's load is < 4 ;-)

[08:47] <masak> what's sslh?

[08:48] <moritz_> that's a daemon that automagically accepts https and ssh connections on the same port

[08:49] <moritz_> just to fool corporate firewalls :(

[08:49] <masak> is that a req for commitbit?

[08:49] <moritz_> no

[08:49] *** zamolxes joined
[08:49] <masak> so, what's lacking that needs a hardware upgrade?

[08:50] <moritz_> scroll up a bit ;)

[08:50] *** bsb left
[08:51] <masak> ah, "<obra>: the problem is that feather is fucked up and has horrible performance for large file scans. (like what sqlite does all the time)"

[08:52] <masak> so, we've basically locked in our meta-committer system in a database on a machine that is currently too slow to run it, without any alternative means of reaching/changing the data? :/

[08:54] <moritz_> masak: seems like, yes

[08:54] <masak> that's amazingly short-sighted of us. not like us at all

[08:55] <masak> I just wish there was some sort of plan of action

[08:55] <moritz_> masak: you mean besides waiting for hardware? ;_9

[08:55] <masak> that's not a plan

[08:56] <masak> is obra the one to ask about the commitbit system? there must be some way of accessing the data

[08:56] <masak> I mean, the web server does it

[08:58] *** ruoso joined
[09:08] *** polettix joined
[09:10] *** andara joined
[09:13] <michaelkohwj> masak: that's ok, i'm still learning perl =)

[09:13] <masak> michaelkohwj: I just think it's a bad state of affairs for things to be in, that's all

[09:14] <masak> #perl6 really thrives on inviting people to collaborate

[09:14] <masak> michaelkohwj: but by all means, start by downloading pugs

[09:14] <masak> and taking a look at it

[09:15] *** cognominal_ joined
[09:15] <michaelkohwj> masak: ok

[09:15] <masak> michaelkohwj: http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl6/index.cgi?download_perl_6

[09:15] <lambdabot> Title: Download Perl 6 / Perl 6

[09:18] <michaelkohwj> lambdabot: pugs

[09:24] <masak> @google pugscode

[09:24] <lambdabot> http://run.pugscode.org/

[09:24] <lambdabot> Title: Run Perl 6 Now -- in your browser!

[09:27] *** REPLeffect left
[09:37] *** iblechbot joined
[09:45] *** pmurias joined
[09:46] <pmurias> hi

[09:46] <masak> pmurias: hi

[09:49] <pugs_svnbot> r17676 | ruoso++ | [kp6] Merging the changes from lib-kp6-mp6 to lib-kp6-kp6 -r17629:HEAD

[09:49] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17676

[09:51] <michaelkohwj> masak: cool! it has a shell-like command history recall with the arrow keys!

[09:56] <michaelkohwj> ignore the dead link in that site at the bottom, i emailed the webmaster

[09:58] <moritz_> michaelkohwj: which dead link?

[09:59] <masak> looks like the "Perl 6" link has an extra space in it

[09:59] <michaelkohwj> yes, but thats a small issue 

[09:59] <masak> michaelkohwj: thanks for noticing and notifying the webmaster

[10:00] <masak> michaelkohwj++

[10:01] <michaelkohwj> np

[10:02] <moritz_> it seems to be fixed in the repo, only comments contain 'perl 6'

[10:04] <michaelkohwj> gtg home cya

[10:04] *** michaelkohwj left
[10:04] <pugs_svnbot> r17677 | moritz++ | [runpugs] fixed links (though only in comments)

[10:04] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17677

[10:04] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17677 - Pugs - Trac

[10:05] <masak> wonder if the page needs to be updated manually somehow?

[10:05] <moritz_> maybe

[10:07] <masak> in fact, the "development version" featured on the page is quite old, too: r17041

[10:08] *** riffraff joined
[10:11] <riffraff> ciao

[10:11] <masak> y0

[10:12] <moritz_> masak: that's... uhm.. just 400 revisions behind

[10:12] *** fglock joined
[10:12] <pmurias> fglock: hi

[10:13] <moritz_> but there weren't many pugs changes in the mean time iirc

[10:13] <fglock> hi

[10:13] <pmurias> i'll add a :p5 option to tokens to enable porting of Runtime::Perl5::Grammar to p6

[10:13] <fglock> pmurias: i'd rather fix it to work in p6 land

[10:14] <fglock> Runtime::Perl5::* is meant as p6-land code

[10:15] <pmurias> it could be moved

[10:15] <pmurias> where should backend specific files in p6 live?

[10:16] <masak> moritz_: that may be, but it's an indication that the page is not updated automatically

[10:17] <fglock> pmurias: Runtime::Perl5::* is ok, but it needs to use the kp6 calling convention (tokens are using mp6 calling convention)

[10:20] <pmurias> the tokens in Runtime::Perl5::Grammar, the ones writen in kp6 don't?

[10:21] <fglock> the ones writen in kp6 should be generated correctly already

[10:21] *** felipe joined
[10:23] <pmurias> k

[10:28] <pmurias> how should i modifiy the ast?

[10:28] <Juerd> Announcement: SPPN (Dutch foundation for the promotion of Perl) has also sponsored feather's hardware upgrade.

[10:28] *** cognominal__ joined
[10:28] <pmurias> is a p5 attr on Token ok?

[10:28] <moritz_> SPPN++

[10:29] <fglock> pmurias: why do you need to modify the ast?

[10:29] <Juerd> They enable an even better upgrade (harddisks, even better CPU), and generously offered to compensate my time

[10:30] <Juerd> I'm ordering the new components today

[10:30] <wolverian> Juerd, nice :)

[10:30] <allbery_b> I just got a propfind failed: can't connect to http://svn.pugscoode.org error.  expected?

[10:30] <pmurias> token newline :p5 {\n}

[10:30] <Juerd> The bad news is that feather will be offline either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow :)

[10:30] <allbery_b> (i.e. is thie discussion of feather h/w upgrade related?)(

[10:30] <pmurias> has to be represented as something

[10:30] <allbery_b> pretend I spelled pugscode right

[10:31] <pmurias> OTOHO i might emit is as a subroutine call

[10:31] <moritz_> allbery_b: that happens from time to time (and yes, it is ;)

[10:31] <allbery_b> tried to update my existing tree

[10:31] <allbery_b> ah, ok

[10:31] *** Blwood left
[10:31] <pmurias> &newline := p5token("\n")?

[10:31] *** Blwood_ joined
[10:31] <Juerd> allbery_b: feather is the shared Perl 6 development server, and is heavily overloaded to the level that new account requests are currently denied even.

[10:31] <pmurias> fglock: makes sense?

[10:31] <allbery_b> ah

[10:31] <fglock> hmm

[10:32] <Juerd> allbery_b: Its hardware will be upgraded, and the shared part is turned into a virtual server ("feather1") on top of a Xen domain-0 ("feather0"). Some services, like runpugs, can be moved to their own virtual machines ("feather2", ...) so they no longer interfere with the rest.

[10:32] <fglock> i'd rather keep this as p5 code, with kp6 calling convention

[10:34] <ruoso> fglock, that kinda hard to write and maintain

[10:34] <moritz_> harder than two branches of kp6? ;-)

[10:34] <ruoso> writing a small subroutine that encapsulates most of it is usually easier

[10:34] <ruoso> moritz_, heh

[10:35] <pmurias> fglock: why would you prefere to keep it p5 code?

[10:37] <fglock> because it's just a few lines of code, i think it doesn't need the syntax sugar

[10:37] *** jisom left
[10:38] <fglock> and &newline := p5token("\n") is not much portable

[10:38] <fglock> and kp6 doesn't recognize "\n"

[10:39] <pmurias> that can me fixed

[10:39] <fglock> ok

[10:39] <pmurias> i think most possible backends understand p5 regex

[10:39] *** cognominal_ left
[10:39] <pmurias> fglock: i'm doing it on Ast level

[10:40] <pmurias> s/.*//

[10:40] <pmurias> it's actually &newline := p5token('\n')

[10:41] <fglock> i wonder if it could break perl5rx

[10:41] <fglock> possibly not

[10:43] <pmurias> fglock: why?

[10:43] <pmurias> would it break

[10:45] *** penk left
[10:45] <pugs_svnbot> r17678 | ruoso++ | [kp6] trying to visualize a PAD-centered compiler/interpreter

[10:45] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17678

[10:45] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17678 - Pugs - Trac

[10:45] <fglock> pmurias: i think it is ok to implement this in kp6-kp6

[10:46] <fglock> but if you need an AST transform, please add it as a separate visitor

[10:48] <wolverian> isn't kp6-kp6 = 0?

[10:49] <fglock> it's NaN

[10:49] <wolverian> ah

[10:49] <ruoso> wolverian, that I don't know, but kp6-mp6 + kp6-kp6 = kp6

[10:49] <wolverian> interesting 

[10:52] <ruoso> but that's probably the reason fglock was trying to give the right-hand operator above a different name

[10:52] <ruoso> AlmostPerl6 ;)

[10:52] <ruoso> LooksLikePerl6

[10:52] <ruoso> or something like that

[10:52] <wolverian> operand?

[10:52] <ruoso> yep yep

[10:52] <ruoso> sry

[10:53] <wolverian> somethingalongthelinesofperl6

[10:53] <wolverian> resemblesperl6ifyouturnitupsidedownanddon'tlooktooclosely

[10:53] <wolverian> too long, maybe.

[10:53] <ruoso> rp6iytiudadltc

[10:54] <ruoso> yeah... bad acronym too

[10:54] <ruoso> fglock, the PAD centered thing may even provide a nice way to do the typemappings between p6 and p5

[10:55] <fglock> ruoso: how?

[10:55] <ruoso> as the parent pad would know one of its children is a p5 pad, and the child pad would know that its parent is a p6 pad

[10:56] <ruoso> a macro language like XS would be needed anyway...

[10:56] <ruoso> but it's possible to do it using pads that way

[10:57] <ruoso> a XS-like macro language in p5

[10:57] <ruoso> that sounds scary

[10:58] <pmurias> ruoso: you want this for use Foo:from<perl5>?

[10:59] <ruoso> pmurias, not exactly

[10:59] <ruoso> but yes, that would be a side effect

[11:00] <ruoso> I'm thinking about the compiler architecture

[11:04] <pmurias> seen your diagram

[11:04] <buubot> pmurias: Sorry, I haven't seen your

[11:04] <pmurias> i think i understand

[11:05] <pmurias> i don't think an XS like language would be needed

[11:05] <pmurias> as p5 and p6 types corespond closly

[11:06] <ruoso> pmurias, do they?

[11:07] <ruoso> you can't even "shift" the arguments from p6 in p5?

[11:07] <ruoso> !

[11:07] <ruoso> s/?/!/

[11:07] <ruoso> and after that, you cant use print $var;

[11:07] <ruoso> because the $var is a hash

[11:07] <ruoso> even if it's a string

[11:09] <pmurias> ruoso: they are diffent at the internal level

[11:09] <ruoso> ahm?

[11:09] <pmurias> s/diffent/different/

[11:10] <ruoso> they are different at the p5 level

[11:10] <pmurias> at the implementation level

[11:10] <ruoso> yep

[11:10] <ruoso> so...

[11:10] <pmurias> you have still to do the conversion

[11:11] <ruoso> and that's what the XS-like macro language would help to do

[11:11] <pmurias> but you can do it automaticly

[11:11] <ruoso> but the question is if you want to

[11:11] <ruoso> because that implies in even more overhead

[11:13] <ruoso> fglock, the PAD thing is nice because it handles lexical grammar changes

[11:13] <ruoso> fglock, (which I just realized it was what you was saying before)

[11:13] * ruoso took some time to get that...

[11:14] *** qmole left
[11:16] <ruoso> lunch &

[11:24] <pugs_svnbot> r17679 | fglock++ | [kp6] make forcerecompile

[11:24] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17679

[11:37] *** danga joined
[11:45] *** buetow joined
[11:51] *** supery joined
[11:51] *** xinming left
[11:55] *** nipotan is now known as nipotaway

[11:56] *** supery left
[11:57] *** lexkde joined
[11:57] *** lexkde left
[11:58] *** lexkde joined
[12:00] *** lexkde is now known as supery

[12:00] *** qmole joined
[12:06] *** supery left
[12:06] *** cognominal__ left
[12:18] *** polettix left
[12:23] *** mr_ank joined
[12:29] *** araujo left
[12:29] *** xinming joined
[12:32] *** sunnavy left
[12:36] *** franck____ joined
[12:37] <pmurias> fglock: regarding implementing the :P5 modifier in kp6-kp6, does kp6-kp6 work right now?

[12:38] <pmurias> or should i just port the changes when it starts to work

[12:38] <pmurias> ?

[12:38] *** franck____ left
[12:39] *** franck____ joined
[12:39] *** franck___ left
[12:40] *** Ashizawa left
[12:40] <pugs_svnbot> r17680 | pmurias++ | [kp6] - initial :P5 modifier implementation

[12:40] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17680

[12:40] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17680 - Pugs - Trac

[12:42] *** franck____ left
[12:43] *** franck___ joined
[12:49] *** dmq32 joined
[12:52] *** michaelkohwj joined
[12:59] *** demq32 left
[13:01] *** jhorwitz joined
[13:14] <fglock> pmurias: re kp6-kp6, there are still some things missing

[13:16] <fglock> match_p5rx should return a p6 Match; there is some possible reusable code in PCR that collects p5 match results

[13:17] <fglock> http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/perl5/Pugs-Compiler-Rule/lib/Pugs/Compiler/RegexPerl5.pm

[13:17] <lambdabot> http://tinyurl.com/2d3mqm

[13:18] <fglock> i think we should implement named parameters before bootstrapping

[13:19] <fglock> so that .new() works properly

[13:19] *** cmarcelo joined
[13:19] <fglock> a possible simplification is to allow either named or positionals (but not mixed)

[13:20] *** michaelkohwj left
[13:20] *** michaelkohwj joined
[13:21] *** michaelkohwj left
[13:23] *** Muixirt joined
[13:23] *** xinming left
[13:29] *** daxim joined
[13:29] *** [particle1 is now known as [particle]

[13:40] *** daxim_ left
[13:45] *** TJCRI joined
[13:53] *** |Jedai| joined
[13:56] *** vel joined
[13:57] <pmurias> fglock: i agree that we should implement named parameters now

[13:58] <fglock> pmurias: i'm adding it to the grammar

[13:59] <pmurias> k

[14:02] *** cognominal_ joined
[14:03] <pmurias> fglock: i'll modify CAPTURIZE to use a capture if it

[14:03] <pmurias> 's passed as the only parameter

[14:03] <fglock> ok

[14:04] <pmurias> which compiler branch are you changing?

[14:04] <pmurias> kp6-mp6 or kp6-kp6?

[14:05] <fglock> kp6-mp6, will merge later

[14:05] <pmurias> ok

[14:06] <pmurias> i'll work on that one too

[14:07] *** lisppaste3 joined
[14:10] *** jedai left
[14:11] <pugs_svnbot> r17681 | fglock++ | [kp6] minor changes to grammar; allows pairs as parameters

[14:11] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17681

[14:11] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17681 - Pugs - Trac

[14:11] <fglock> oops - i lost token_P5, reverting

[14:12] *** drrho joined
[14:12] <wolverian> holy crap, these windows computers have perl4 installed

[14:13] *** xinming joined
[14:21] <moritz_> wolverian: and I thought Perl 5.6 was old ;)

[14:21] <fglock> help

[14:21] <buubot> fglock: Available Plugins:  oeis jeval spell cpan shorten rt topic squeeze rbeval acronym change managementspeak reverse join translate bibleit core imdb insult tv help echo eval convert jseval mangle restart quit deparse part pyeval reload_plugins goobooblink heap_test rss

[14:21] <wolverian> moritz_, '93 :)

[14:22] <fglock> i don't know how to revert my changes

[14:22] <moritz_> I don't know either, but you can try to svk up -r $last_revision, and then commit again

[14:22] <fglock> moritz_: i tried, but it doesn't commit

[14:23] <moritz_> hrmpf

[14:23] <fglock> "No targets to commit."

[14:23] <moritz_> maybe if you add small changes? (whitespaces)

[14:23] <fglock> it seems i can only revert locally

[14:23] <pmurias> svk merge

[14:23] <moritz_> that's an ugly workaround, I know

[14:23] *** cognominal__ joined
[14:23] <pmurias> can be used for reverting changes

[14:24] <pmurias> svk merge -r N:N-1

[14:25] <pmurias> for reverting changes at revision N

[14:27] <wolverian> wow, svk is slow on feather

[14:27] <wolverian> 'svk help' took a minute to run

[14:27] <wolverian> using all available cpu

[14:30] *** cognominal_ left
[14:32] *** Blwood_ left
[14:32] <fglock> "svk merge -r HEAD:18575" invokes the svk help

[14:34] <rgs> "svk merge -r HEAD:18575 . ."

[14:36] <pmurias> svk merge -r 8048:8047 //pugs/v6/v6-KindaPerl6 also worked here

[14:37] *** cognominal__ left
[14:38] <pmurias> fglock: assuming single captures are only created by the new calling convetion makes some tests fail

[14:38] <pmurias> * convention

[14:38] <pmurias> i need something like func(\(...),'newcc') is it ok?

[14:40] <Juerd> wolverian: Everything is currently slow on feather

[14:40] <Juerd> I've just, 10 minutes ago, ordered the components for feather v2

[14:41] <fglock> pmurias: i don't understand - how did it break?

[14:42] <Juerd> Core2Duo E6550 2330 MHz, 4 GB RAM, SATA 160 GB in RAID 1

[14:42] <Juerd> On a nice Intel mainboard

[14:42] <fglock> pmurias: i'm not changing the calling convention yet

[14:42] <wolverian> Juerd, well, vim starts instantly

[14:42] <Juerd> wolverian: vim's in cache :)

[14:42] <wolverian> you'd think svk is too.. 

[14:42] <wolverian> (even with all the modules)

[14:42] <Juerd> wolverian: The numerous small files svk has to use are constantly pushed out of the buffer, I guess

[14:43] <wolverian> yeah. 

[14:43] <Juerd> wolverian: Don't forget that feather used to have 2 GB RAM, and that 1 GB died.

[14:43] <Juerd> 1 GB, shared with 10 people, isn't much :)

[14:43] <Juerd> 320 MB of swap space is in use right now

[14:44] <pmurias> fglock: captures passed with the old calling conventions are mistaken for the new one

[14:44] <Juerd> I'll probably assign 2,5 GB to feather1

[14:44] <Juerd> 0,5 GB to feather0, feather2, and feather3 each.

[14:44] <wolverian> ouch, I didn't know that

[14:45] <Juerd> 3 can run all the public eval stuff

[14:45] <fglock> pmurias: i'm not sure what you mean, what's old and new

[14:45] <Juerd> 2 can be used for important stuff like the main SVN repos.

[14:45] <Juerd> Only feather1 stays as it is: semi-public access, and 0,2,3 will be more restricted.

[14:46] <Juerd> diakopter: Are you available to migrate things across servers in a week or so?

[14:46] *** xinming_ joined
[14:49] <pmurias> fglock: the new calling convention is the one with all parameters passed in a capture, the old one is all parameters passed as positionals in @_

[14:49] <pugs_svnbot> r17682 | fglock++ | [kp6] recompiled grammar

[14:49] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17682

[14:49] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17682 - Pugs - Trac

[14:49] <fglock> pmurias: that's a painful change

[14:49] <pmurias> so we aren't going to do it?

[14:50] <fglock> hmm - i think it needs some migration plan

[14:52] <pmurias> all the p6 can be easily migrated, what will cause problems is the p5 stuff

[14:53] <rgs> pesky p5 stuff

[14:53] <Juerd> Heh

[14:53] *** spinclad left
[14:57] *** Blwood joined
[14:57] <pmurias> fglock: i don't know if the change is worth it

[14:59] <fglock> how about push the named args as the last parameter to @_

[14:59] *** xinming left
[14:59] <pmurias> fglock: it could be uses as a temporary solution

[15:00] <fglock> yes

[15:00] <pmurias> after the boostrap will have less p5 code

[15:00] <[particle]> is kp6 grammar trying to mirror STD?

[15:01] <fglock> [particle]: not yet

[15:01] <[particle]> okay, that's the way nqp took, and supports named params now

[15:01] <fglock> we need kp6 to do that

[15:01] <[particle]> ah, i see. named params aren't native kp6

[15:02] <pmurias> [particle]: parsing named params isn't the problem

[15:05] *** TimToady joined
[15:06] *** xinming_ is now known as xinming

[15:08] * pmurias reading a book&

[15:10] *** masak left
[15:19] <fglock> pmurias: i've got an implementation

[15:19] <pugs_svnbot> r17683 | fglock++ | [kp6] fixed Ast for positional args

[15:19] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17683

[15:19] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17683 - Pugs - Trac

[15:20] <fglock> s/positional/named/

[15:24] <ruoso> pmurias, p5 modifier is still not merged to kp6-kp6, right?

[15:24] *** amnesiac joined
[15:25] *** TimToady_ left
[15:33] <pmurias> ruoso: not yet

[15:34] <pmurias> ruoso: do you need it

[15:37] <pmurias> ?

[15:51] <diakopter> Juerd: maybe

[15:51] <Juerd> diakopter: Would be great

[16:09] *** iblechbot left
[16:10] <TimToady> .oO(Captures are pretty close to anonymous typeglobs...)

[16:14] <fglock> i wonder if captures could be pads

[16:17] <TimToady> sounds heavy

[16:17] <pugs_svnbot> r17684 | fglock++ | [kp6] initial change to CAPTURIZE

[16:17] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17684

[16:17] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17684 - Pugs - Trac

[16:17] *** justatheory joined
[16:18] *** weinig|zZz left
[16:23] *** xinming_ joined
[16:25] *** snearch joined
[16:25] <ruoso> pmurias, it would be nice to keep both as close as possible

[16:28] *** TimToady left
[16:28] *** andara left
[16:33] *** TimToady joined
[16:34] *** TimToady left
[16:35] *** TimToady joined
[16:35] <pugs_svnbot> r17685 | fglock++ | [kp6] CAPTURIZE understands named args

[16:35] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17685

[16:35] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17685 - Pugs - Trac

[16:36] <diakopter> There's that word again, 'heavy'. Why are things so heavy in the future?

[16:38] *** xinming left
[16:41] <ruoso> diakopter, because premature optimization is the root of all evil? ;)

[16:41] <ruoso> BTW... it looks like the version after kp6 will be p6 in p6 already

[16:42] <ruoso> completely p6 i mean

[16:42] <ruoso> no p5 emitting at all

[16:42] <wolverian> cool!

[16:44] *** zamolxes left
[16:46] *** zamolxes joined
[16:47] *** araujo joined
[16:48] *** riffraff left
[16:48] <pmurias> ruoso: how do you plan to do it wholly with p6?

[16:50] <pmurias> s/with/in/

[16:53] <ruoso> pmurias, I'm drawing a diagram to explain it

[16:53] <pmurias> ok

[16:57] *** barney joined
[16:57] * ruoso just notices that it's not quite a diagram, just a flow of ideas using boxes and arrows

[17:00] *** snearch left
[17:02] <pugs_svnbot> r17686 | ruoso++ | [kp6] writing down ideas of how to write p6-on-p6 based on kp6

[17:02] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17686

[17:02] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17686 - Pugs - Trac

[17:03] *** kaether joined
[17:06] <pmurias> ruoso: ah, so you plan to interpret AST

[17:06] <ruoso> yep

[17:06] <ruoso> but not in kp6...

[17:06] <ruoso> only in the other version

[17:07] <ruoso> because kp6 will the door to provide alternative runtimes

[17:07] <ruoso> or "vm"s if you wish

[17:07] <pmurias> i had thought of something more evil, i'll write when i get back

[17:07] <pmurias> visiting a friend&

[17:11] *** franck___ left
[17:19] *** jisom joined
[17:27] *** riffraff joined
[17:28] *** elmex left
[17:29] *** elmex joined
[17:33] <pugs_svnbot> r17687 | fglock++ | [kp6] implemented %_

[17:33] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17687

[17:33] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17687 - Pugs - Trac

[17:36] <pugs_svnbot> r17688 | fglock++ | [kp6] fixed a test

[17:36] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17688

[17:36] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17688 - Pugs - Trac

[17:36] *** spinclad joined
[17:39] *** Psyche^ joined
[17:39] *** jamesmck joined
[17:50] *** iblechbot joined
[17:50] <pugs_svnbot> r17689 | fglock++ | [kp6] fixed last commit

[17:50] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17689

[17:50] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17689 - Pugs - Trac

[17:55] *** Patterner left
[17:55] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[17:58] *** cognominal_ joined
[18:02] *** xinming_ left
[18:05] *** hkb_lab is now known as hkb_aw

[18:06] *** REPLeffect joined
[18:10] *** xinming joined
[18:11] <pugs_svnbot> r17690 | fglock++ | [kp6] refactored Array and Hash out of MOP

[18:11] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17690

[18:11] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17690 - Pugs - Trac

[18:17] * ruoso merging all changes from lib-kp6-mp6 to lib-kp6-kp6

[18:19] *** drupek1260 left
[18:19] * ruoso is always impressed by the time it takes to compile kp6-kp6

[18:21] *** weinig|zZz joined
[18:21] *** renormalist joined
[18:23] <pugs_svnbot> r17691 | fglock++ | [kp6] force recompile

[18:23] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17691

[18:23] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17691 - Pugs - Trac

[18:24] * ruoso probably needs to recompile again

[18:24] <pugs_svnbot> r17692 | ruoso++ | [kp6] merging changes from kp6-mp6 to kp6-kp6. (r17676:HEAD). all tests pass in both runtimes

[18:24] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17692

[18:24] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17692 - Pugs - Trac

[18:24] * ruoso recompiling again

[18:24] * [particle] updates to look at kp6

[18:24] * fglock is always impressed by ruoso patience

[18:25] <[particle]> nothingmuch: ping

[18:25] <nothingmuch> [particle]: pong

[18:25] <TimToady> it takes pugs a minute or two to recompile STD; I hate to think how long STD on STD would take...

[18:26] *** rindolf joined
[18:26] <ruoso> I have been thinking...

[18:26] <ruoso> and I still can't see an easy way to p5 and p6 to interoperate

[18:27] <ruoso> we'll need a XS-like glue

[18:27] <ruoso> between them

[18:28] <ruoso> the semantics are too much different...

[18:28] <ruoso> fglock, that temp.pm thing in kp6-mp6 compilation is really necessary?

[18:29] <ruoso> it prevents the use of make -j

[18:29] <ruoso> s/-j/-j2/

[18:29] <fglock> i think so, otherwise you end up modifying a lib that is in use

[18:29] <ruoso> so, I'll think I'll hack it to use a temp name

[18:29] <ruoso> instead of a fixed "temp.pm" name

[18:30] <fglock> ok

[18:30] *** drupek1260 joined
[18:31] <pmurias> ruoso: the temp.pm file used in kp6-mp6 compilation is used to avoid creating empty files

[18:32] <pmurias> so that you don't have to svk revert to recompile if there is a syntax error

[18:32] <pmurias> it used to be without it

[18:32] <ruoso> pmurias, I'll create a file named the same as the original with a .temp appended

[18:32] <ruoso> instead of a fixed temp file

[18:35] *** devogon left
[18:35] <pugs_svnbot> r17693 | ruoso++ | [kp6] recompilation after merge

[18:35] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17693

[18:36] <renormalist> irc looks like you solved kp6-in-kp6, is that true?

[18:37] *** devogon joined
[18:38] <fglock> renormalist: it is still missing a few runtime tweaks, as it no longer uses the mp6 calling convention internally

[18:41] <ruoso> yep.. kp6-kp6 still doesn't run

[18:41] <pmurias> ruoso: not perltidy'ing everything might speed the compliation up

[18:41] <pugs_svnbot> r17694 | ruoso++ | [kp6] allows -j2 in make

[18:41] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17694

[18:41] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17694 - Pugs - Trac

[18:41] <ruoso> pmurias, I think we can remove that already

[18:41] <ruoso> we're having less problems with the generated code

[18:42] <nothingmuch> ?w 61

[18:42] <lambdabot> Maybe you meant: web1913 what where where+ wiki wikipedia wn world02 . v

[18:43] <fglock> perltidy results in more readable diffs

[18:43] <ruoso> in fact

[18:43] <nothingmuch> except for the diff where you started using it ;-)

[18:43] <ruoso> that's a good reason

[18:44] <nothingmuch> consistency makes for readable diffs

[18:44] * ruoso hails to the goodness of wdiff

[18:45] <ruoso> but -j2 already helps a lot in the time it takes

[18:45] <ruoso> considering you have a dual core processor

[18:46] * pmurias dosn't

[18:46] * renormalist had to revert Test::Harness to stable

[18:47] *** drrho left
[18:48] <[particle]> rats, the kp6 makefile isn't windows friendly

[18:48] <[particle]> s/windows/nmake/

[18:48] <ruoso> [particle], oops

[18:48] <[particle]> $(patsubst ...), $(wildcard ...) etc

[18:49] <ruoso> but at this moment you don't need to issue make

[18:49] <[particle]> i'm trying with 'make' now

[18:49] <fglock> [particle]: make'ing is optional

[18:49] *** xdg joined
[18:49] <fglock> it just p5 code

[18:49] <ruoso> svn contains the runnable code as well

[18:50] <ruoso> [particle], unless you have a sh-like shell, it won't work in windows

[18:50] <ruoso> there are also shell constructs in the kp6-mp6 compilation

[18:50] <[particle]> btw jhorwitz has made great progress with mod_perl6:  http://nopaste.snit.ch:8001/11083 and http://www.smashing.org/sandbox/perl6-handlers/counter

[18:52] <fglock> yay!

[18:52] <fglock> is it based on mod_parrot?

[18:52] <renormalist> [particle]: what does mod_perl6 run on? pugs? kp6?

[18:53] *** xdg left
[18:54] <jhorwitz> parrot's perl6 compiler on top of mod_parrot

[18:54] * jhorwitz awakens from two years of slumber on #perl6

[18:55] <[particle]> i wonder what jhorwitz will do after coffee and breakfast....

[18:55] <pmurias> how can one have an error at line 0?

[18:55] <pmurias> eval {...} called at lib-kp6-kp6-p5//KindaPerl6/Runtime/Perl6/Compiler.pm line 0

[18:55] <buubot> pmurias:  ''ERROR: syntax error at (eval 212) line 1, near "{..."

[18:55] <jhorwitz> [particle]: that's nap time!

[18:55] <ruoso> pmurias, you're trying to run kp6-kp6

[18:55] <ruoso> right?

[18:55] <pmurias> yes

[18:56] <ruoso> yep... that's really weird

[18:56] <ruoso> it does say line 0

[18:56] <ruoso> but I think that's from kp6 itself, not from pelr

[18:56] <ruoso> perl

[18:57] <ruoso> so, it's not so weird

[18:57] *** weinig|zZz left
[18:57] <pmurias> the backtrace is generated by perl

[18:58] <pmurias> by Carp::confess

[18:58] *** hkb_aw is now known as hakobe

[18:58] <ruoso> hmmm.. the global variable initialization is broken again

[18:58] <ruoso> in kp6-kp6

[18:58] <fglock> jhorwitz: congrats!

[18:59] <pmurias> ruoso: what should i do if i want to help with kp6-kp6

[18:59] <pmurias> ?

[18:59] <jhorwitz> fglock:  thanks.  pmichaud++ and particle++ for lots of help catching up with parrot

[19:00] <ruoso> pmurias, port Pad.pm to kp6 calling convention

[19:00] <pmurias> ok

[19:00] <ruoso> and all other files in docs/KP6-Bootstrap-Notes.txt

[19:00] <fglock> pmurias: you can now use named parameters in .new() - this should make things easier

[19:01] <fglock> hmm - i need to reimplement .new

[19:01] <ruoso> hmmm... globals are broken in both runtimes

[19:01] <ruoso> intersting

[19:02] <pmurias> global being

[19:02] <pmurias> ?

[19:02] <pugs_svnbot> r17695 | ruoso++ | [kp6] setting a global variable is broken in both runtimes

[19:02] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17695

[19:02] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17695 - Pugs - Trac

[19:02] <pmurias> ruoso: it Global.pm

[19:03] <pmurias> being a pain

[19:03] <pmurias> it turn Main::foo into GLOBAL::Main::fo

[19:03] <pmurias> o

[19:03] <ruoso> but, is the variable being initialized somewhere?

[19:03] <fglock> looking

[19:05] <pmurias> irc eats a my 's' chars

[19:05] <pmurias> *all

[19:05] <pmurias> ;)

[19:06] <fglock> where can i read more about BUILD() vs. new() vs. bless() ?

[19:07] <ruoso> it's not being initialized at all

[19:07] <ruoso> pmurias, the translation to GLOBAL::Main::foo kinda makes sens

[19:07] <ruoso> but the problem is that it doesn't initializes it anyway

[19:08] <ruoso> I made a hack other time

[19:08] <ruoso> I could do again

[19:08] <fglock> ruoso: yes, the AST transformations are ignoring globals

[19:08] <ruoso> which is to test inside the DISPATCH_VAR if $_[0] is undef

[19:08] <ruoso> and in this case, define it...

[19:08] <fglock> this may mask real errors

[19:08] <fglock> i'd rather fix it

[19:09] <fglock> though globals are autovivified in p6 too, right?

[19:09] <ruoso> the problem with that is that you never know when to initialize the global

[19:09] <ruoso> I think so

[19:09] <fglock> so i think it is ok to autovivify then

[19:10] *** rlpeacock joined
[19:13] *** Grrrr joined
[19:14] <pmurias> ruoso: i think Pad.pm could be ported to perl6

[19:14] <ruoso> fglock, which is the correct way of doing the variable initialization to a container with undef in p5 land?

[19:15] <ruoso> I'm doing a $_[0] = ::DISPATCH( $::meta_Container, 'new' );

[19:15] <ruoso> and it doesn't seems to be ok

[19:15] <fglock> ruoso: see the initialization of 'my' vars in compiloed code

[19:16] <fglock> ::DISPATCH( $::Container, 'new' )

[19:16] <fglock> oops

[19:16] <fglock> $::Scalar

[19:16] <renormalist> lib-kp6-mp6/KindaPerl6/Runtime/Perl5/Compiler.pm   does not have a finishing   1;  at the end. Is that wanted?

[19:17] <renormalist> I have compile errors due to this, but not always, eg. not when I do a complete make

[19:20] <ruoso> hmmm 

[19:20] <ruoso> fglock, not enough

[19:21] <ruoso> Undefined subroutine &main:: called at lib-kp6-mp6-p5/KindaPerl6/Runtime/Perl5/MOP.pm line 711

[19:21] <fglock> hmm - you may need to assign $::Undef to it

[19:21] <pmurias> renormalist: you can probably add '1;'

[19:22] <pmurias> fglock: you shouldn't have to

[19:23] <ruoso> pmurias, in fact... it already is undef by default

[19:23] <fglock> ruoso: i'll fix it

[19:23] <pmurias> FETCH returns ::DISPATCH($::Undef,'new',0) if you have p5 undef

[19:24] <pmurias> i remember modifing it to do so

[19:25] <ruoso> fglock, I think it needs to be done in a AST transform

[19:25] <ruoso> to add the auto-vivifying code in the code itself

[19:26] <pmurias> well we could have :: call a method on the package object

[19:26] <pmurias> it would come in handy for :from<perl5> for non-oo modules

[19:28] <fglock> hmm - i don't think i can fix it right now - i'm tired :P

[19:29] <fglock> we need a new implementation of namespaces

[19:29] <ruoso> fglock, can we hold it for the version after kp6 bootstrap?

[19:30] <fglock> yes, if you can work around globals

[19:33] <fglock> home &

[19:39] *** Aankhen`` left
[19:40] *** danga left
[19:42] *** ruoso left
[19:48] *** danga joined
[19:50] <pugs_svnbot> r17696 | pmurias++ | [kp6-kp6] Runtime/Perl6/Grammar.pm

[19:50] <pugs_svnbot> r17696 | pmurias++ | translation to p6 - dosn't compile or run yet

[19:50] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17696

[19:50] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17696 - Pugs - Trac

[19:53] *** danga left
[19:54] *** fglock left
[19:57] *** REPLeffect left
[19:58] *** REPLeffect joined
[19:58] *** riffraff left
[19:59] *** xdg joined
[19:59] *** weinig|zZz joined
[20:03] *** lichtkind joined
[20:03] *** jisom left
[20:04] *** rindolf left
[20:05] <lichtkind> moritz_: hihi

[20:07] <pmurias> lichtkind: hellohello

[20:09] <lichtkind> pmurias: hello, so glad to be in perl channel since weeks

[20:09] *** weinig|zZz is now known as weinig

[20:11] <renormalist> lichtkind: why were you absent? vacation?

[20:12] <lichtkind> renormalist: pilgrim in spain

[20:13] <Patterner> no yapc:eu?

[20:13] <lichtkind> Patterner: no german perl workshop was enough for me

[20:16] <szbalint> yapc:eu was nice :)

[20:16] *** ChanServ sets mode: +o diakopter

[20:17] *** diakopter sets mode: +o TimToady

[20:17] <lichtkind> szbalint: yea tinita is currently explaining it :)

[20:17] *** diakopter sets mode: -o diakopter

[20:17] *** cerridwen is now known as cerridwen_

[20:32] *** elmex left
[20:32] *** elmex joined
[20:37] *** vel left
[20:38] *** elmex left
[20:40] *** elmex joined
[20:40] *** xinming left
[20:49] *** lichtkind left
[20:51] <pmurias> sleep&

[20:51] <pmurias> why do i have to sleep when i start having most fun hacking on something? ;)

[20:52] *** pmurias left
[20:57] *** xinming joined
[21:02] *** barney left
[21:20] *** xdg left
[21:26] *** elmex left
[21:26] <pugs_svnbot> r17697 | renormalist++ | - just a finishing ;1 , no more, no less

[21:26] <pugs_svnbot> diff: http://dev.pugscode.org/changeset/17697

[21:26] <lambdabot> Title: Changeset 17697 - Pugs - Trac

[21:26] *** elmex joined
[21:29] *** renormalist left
[21:32] *** Belaf joined
[21:38] *** TJCRI left
[21:46] *** TJCRI joined
[21:46] *** TJCRI left
[21:59] *** kjwcode left
[22:03] *** justatheory left
[22:03] *** iblechbot left
[22:09] *** jhorwitz left
[22:11] *** Belaf left
[22:14] *** amnesiac left
[22:21] *** justatheory joined
[22:21] *** justatheory left
[22:32] *** elmex left
[22:34] *** cmarcelo left
[22:51] *** devogon left
[23:08] *** rlpeacock left
[23:10] *** Limbic_Region joined
[23:13] *** polettix joined
[23:42] *** lumi left
[23:48] *** mncharity joined
[23:50] *** REPLeffect left
