[01:13] *** mdiep_ joined
[01:15] *** nperez joined
[01:17] <avar> avar@Arsia:~$ pugs -e 'for split /^/, "a\nb\n" -> $i { print $i }'

[01:17] <avar> a

[01:17] <avar> b

[01:17] <avar> avar@Arsia:~$ pugs -e 'for split /^^/, "a\nb\n" -> $i { print $i }'

[01:17] <avar> a

[01:17] <avar> b

[01:17] <avar> isn't it only ^^ that's line beginning?

[01:23] <svnbot6> r15836 | Darren_Duncan++ | added ext/QDRDBMS/, which is a rewrite of ext/Rosetta/ (the latter to be removed before the next Pugs release) ... the files of this initial commit are identical to the current Perl 5 version in version control, that is set to be released to CPAN soon, and I will be s///ing Pugs' version into Perl 6 code within the next day

[01:31] *** nperez joined
[01:36] *** Limbic_Region joined
[01:37] * Limbic_Region just dealt with the best customer service ever

[01:38] <Tene> orly?

[01:38] <Tene> Who?

[01:39] <Limbic_Region> Linksys

[01:39] * Limbic_Region was more than a little suprised

[01:41] *** geoffb joined
[01:44] * Limbic_Region assumes the significant recent changes require a realclean?

[01:50] *** ofer0 joined
[02:12] *** esstone joined
[02:15] <Limbic_Region> ?seen audreyt

[02:15] <lambdabot> audreyt is in #perl6 and #haskell. I last heard audreyt speak 1d 20h 17m 58s ago.

[02:30] *** ofer0 joined
[02:30] *** ofer joined
[02:34] *** sunnavy joined
[02:36] *** nagayaway is now known as nagayama

[02:38] *** justatheory joined
[02:38] *** justatheory joined
[02:38] *** justatheory joined
[03:02] *** forsaken joined
[03:09] <Lorn> hi

[03:52] <spinclad> ?eval for split /^/, "a\nb\n" -> $i { print ":$i" }

[03:52] <evalbot_r15831> OUTPUT[:a:‚ê§:b:‚ê§] undef

[03:53] <spinclad> ?eval for split /^^/, "a\nb\n" -> $i { print ":$i" }

[03:53] <evalbot_r15831> OUTPUT[:a:‚ê§:b:‚ê§] undef

[03:54] <spinclad> interesting. expected [:a‚ê§b‚ê§] or such.

[03:58] <spinclad> or rather, expect that for split /^/, like avar said.

[04:01] <avar> perhaps this is a bug or a special exception, split /^/ wouldn't be very useful ..

[04:04] *** forsaken joined
[04:21] *** amnesiac joined
[04:21] <gaal> @tell szabgab you also need the libghc6-network-dev package...

[04:21] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[04:57] *** kanru joined
[05:04] *** Eidolos joined
[05:37] *** devogon joined
[05:50] *** prly_ joined
[06:08] *** ricko joined
[06:09] *** prly joined
[06:14] *** prly__ joined
[06:14] *** kanru joined
[06:18] *** imperator joined
[06:31] <szabgab> @tell gaal thanks, now Pugs builds

[06:31] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[06:47] *** prly joined
[06:49] <svnbot6> r15837 | Darren_Duncan++ | ext/QDRDBMS/ : made some updates to SeeAlso.pod

[07:04] *** imperator left
[07:07] *** RHainsworth joined
[07:08] *** RHainsworth left
[07:17] *** Eidolos is now known as stumbly

[07:17] *** stumbly is now known as Eidolos

[07:32] *** Belaf_ joined
[07:40] *** szabgab_ joined
[08:05] <svnbot6> r15838 | Darren_Duncan++ | ext/QDRDBMS/ : did a bunch of s///ing Perl 5 code and docs into Perl 6

[08:06] *** ozo joined
[08:08] *** SubStack joined
[09:35] <svnbot6> r15839 | franck++ |  r21189@franck-mbp:  franck | 2007-04-07 11:29:50 +0200

[09:35] <svnbot6> r15839 | franck++ |  tests for fetch and store

[09:40] *** buetow joined
[09:42] *** rissy joined
[09:48] *** the_dormant joined
[10:10] *** eumenides joined
[10:14] <moritz> moose

[10:23] <svnbot6> r15840 | Darren_Duncan++ | ext/QDRDBMS/ : continued s///ing Perl 5 code into Perl 6 code

[10:38] *** chris2 joined
[10:38] <svnbot6> r15841 | Darren_Duncan++ | ext/QDRDBMS/ : in AST.pm, split Expr type into 3

[10:49] *** dduncan left
[11:01] *** kane_ joined
[11:04] *** wilx joined
[11:05] *** perlsyntax joined
[11:05] *** perlsyntax left
[11:23] *** lichtkind joined
[11:23] *** rissy joined
[11:47] *** iblechbot joined
[11:57] *** pack|eet joined
[12:03] *** Alias_ joined
[12:40] *** nagayama left
[12:57] *** forsaken joined
[13:01] *** rissy joined
[13:05] *** elmex joined
[13:17] *** prly_ joined
[13:23] *** prly__ joined
[13:39] *** cognominal left
[13:43] *** cognominal joined
[13:46] *** prly joined
[13:47] *** stef__ joined
[13:51] *** prly_ joined
[13:56] *** prly___ joined
[13:56] *** rissy joined
[13:56] *** devogon_ joined
[14:01] *** prly____ joined
[14:06] *** prly joined
[14:22] *** lichtkind joined
[14:34] *** devogon joined
[14:38] *** __Ace__ joined
[14:38] <__Ace__> damn, this is so cool.. embedding perl in C

[14:38] <__Ace__> and its quite easy too

[14:39] <__Ace__> TimToady: what is the license on the application if I embed the perl interpreter?

[14:39] <__Ace__> :)

[14:40] <xinming> __Ace__: gpl

[14:40] <__Ace__> oki

[14:41] <integral> err, surely it could be Artistic too?

[14:42] *** eden_c joined
[14:42] <__Ace__> which means?

[14:43] <xinming> integral: yes, But you have to ask author about the permission.

[14:43] <integral> ah

[14:44] <__Ace__> so damn cool... so, this means I can do C programming, but still use Perl stuff :)

[14:45] <xinming> integral: we are not lawyer... so, I don't know.. But, It's just kind of guess. :-P

[14:46] *** weinig|away joined
[14:46] <__Ace__> thats why asked the creator himselves :) he should know 

[14:48] *** ashleyb joined
[14:56] *** Limbic_Region joined
[15:02] *** forsaken joined
[15:19] *** Jedai joined
[15:22] *** Belaf__ joined
[15:22] *** allbery_b joined
[15:33] *** rissy joined
[15:44] <moritz> __Ace__: perl is community project ;-)

[15:44] <__Ace__> even perl5?

[15:51] <moritz> __Ace__: just take a look at the list of authors ;-)

[15:53] <moritz> zcat AUTHORS.gz |wc -l

[15:53] <moritz> 860

[15:54] *** pmurias joined
[15:59] <__Ace__> ok, let put it this way. if one do something cool, you think there will be alot of $ doners? ;)

[16:02] <pmurias> doners == donors?

[16:02] <__Ace__> yes :)

[16:04] <__Ace__> not saying I am, just wondering

[16:04] <moritz> __Ace__: it depends on how usefull that is...

[16:04] <moritz> people tend not to donate just because something is cool

[16:04] <pmurias> audreyt is, and she still has to have a day job

[16:05] <moritz> but if something is _really_ cool, you can build a successfull website and earn money from the website  - sometimes

[16:05] <moritz> like the guy who invented the flying spaghetti monster ;-)

[16:14] <perlmonkey2> I would have thought the Perl Foundation would have raised 10's of millions for p6.

[16:15] <perlmonkey2> And that the core of the p6 dev team would be fully funded.

[16:17] <moritz> I think it's not that easy raising so much funds

[16:17] <Khisanth> somewhere someone in TPF is ROFLing

[16:18] <moritz> or wheeping ;-)

[16:20] <perlmonkey2> p6 needs a professional fundraiser.  there are oceans of money in the world, and p6 could fully fund the core dev team with ~ a few hundred thousand/year.

[16:21] <moritz> actually audreyt would need only 3k US$/month to work full time on pugs

[16:22] <perlmonkey2> That isn't very much.....

[16:23] * perlmonkey2 ponders putting some effort into sending donation traffic at TPF.

[16:24] <moritz> http://donate.pugscode.org/

[16:24] <lambdabot> Title: Perl6 Community Development Server

[16:24] <moritz> that's not what it should be

[16:25] <perlmonkey2> That appears to be a problem.  

[16:25] <perlmonkey2> Also, people don't like to work under short-term grants.  No security in it.

[16:26] *** pmurias left
[16:26] <moritz> perlmonkey2: audreyt is an exception, here $job is very flexible

[16:27] * perlmonkey2 is checking out online advertising prices.

[16:30] <__Ace__> uh, anyone here using irssi?

[16:30] <Khisanth> hrm that page doesn't mention sshfs

[16:30] <__Ace__> how to connect to a new server without disconnecting from this one+

[16:30] <__Ace__> ?

[16:31] <Khisanth> /server with some flag?

[16:31] <moritz> __Ace__: just /connect

[16:31] <__Ace__> ah

[16:31] * perlmonkey2 wonders what types of websites perl fanboys visit.

[16:31] <moritz> __Ace__: at least that works for me

[16:31] <moritz> perlmonkey2: perlmonks, use.perl.org ;-)

[16:31] <moritz> perlmonkey2: slashdot

[16:31] <Khisanth> heh

[16:31] <__Ace__> digg

[16:31] <__Ace__> :)

[16:31] <moritz> (in Germany) heise

[16:32] <moritz> myspace.com

[16:32] <moritz> just kidding ;-)

[16:32] <__Ace__> and rarely google.com

[16:32] <__Ace__> ;)

[16:32] <perlmonkey2> slashdot....excellent.  Lately you can get free adertisements posted as articles.  Someone write a article about p6's Spring fundraiser and about how the project is on schedule for Xmas 1.0.

[16:33] <eumenides> slashdot? seriously?

[16:33] <perlmonkey2> first the article needs be on use.perl

[16:33] <moritz> perlmonkey2: what we really need is a new pugs release, and then a /. article about that

[16:34] <perlmonkey2> the focus should be the Spring fundraiser.....the point of this project is to raise development funds.

[16:34] <moritz> Juerd: can feather handle a /. "attack"?

[16:34] *** dakkar joined
[16:34] <perlmonkey2> a new pugs release would be great candy to add to the post.

[16:34] *** dakkar left
[16:35] <moritz> perlmonkey2: well, it has to have some _news_ in it

[16:35] <__Ace__> uh

[16:35] <__Ace__> ok... so, now when I am connected..

[16:35] <__Ace__> how do I tell to join on that particular server?

[16:36] <__Ace__> moritz

[16:36] <perlmonkey2> I think I'll email whatever department on campus teaches advertising and ask if their top students want to make a few bucks.

[16:36] *** eumenides left
[16:36] <moritz> __Ace__: /join -freenode #perl6

[16:37] <__Ace__> and how to display which ones Im connected to?

[16:37] <moritz> __Ace__: /server

[16:37] *** rissy joined
[16:38] *** RHainsworth joined
[16:39] <__Ace__> aha, thanks

[16:42] *** nwc10 joined
[16:44] *** esstone joined
[16:44] *** aukjan is now known as aukjan|gone

[16:54] *** amnesiac joined
[16:59] *** weinig|away is now known as weinig_

[17:00] *** weinig_ is now known as weinig

[17:06] *** teodozjan joined
[17:22] *** nwc10 left
[17:30] <Juerd> moritz: Depends on the kind of attack :)

[17:30] <Juerd> moritz: In general, there's exactly one way to find out

[17:32] <moritz> Juerd: good point ;)

[17:45] *** Psyche^ joined
[17:46] *** Jedai joined
[17:50] *** rindolf joined
[17:50] <rindolf> Hi all.

[17:58] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[17:59] *** forsaken joined
[18:00] *** buetow joined
[18:03] *** weinig joined
[18:09] *** RHainsworth left
[18:15] *** diakopter joined
[18:33] *** weinig joined
[18:45] *** nperez joined
[18:47] *** weinig is now known as weinig|bbl

[19:07] *** dmpk2k joined
[19:11] *** ivas joined
[19:16] *** jisom joined
[19:31] *** rissy joined
[19:32] *** cmarcelo joined
[20:01] *** prism joined
[20:03] *** forsaken joined
[20:20] *** Aankhen`` joined
[20:22] *** perlmonkey2 left
[20:23] *** lichtkind joined
[20:33] *** forsaken joined
[20:36] <lichtkind> "The best technical paper at the annual Perl Conference was subsequently named in his honour" does that mean that this prize is named after him ?

[20:37] <moritz> seems like

[20:37] <lichtkind> cool

[21:09] <moritz> lichtkind: are you editing the Perl article on the German wikipedia?

[21:09] <lichtkind> yes its mostly my work

[21:09] <lichtkind> thatswhy i ask here tim toady the weird questions

[21:10] <moritz> lichtkind: in the part on perl 6 you are inconsequent in respect to "Perl6" and "Perl 6"

[21:10] <moritz> I think the latter is correct

[21:10] <lichtkind> what ja mean?

[21:10] <moritz> lichtkind: the space ;-)

[21:10] <lichtkind> ah the space between

[21:10] <lichtkind> hm

[21:10] <moritz> should I just correct that?

[21:10] <lichtkind> tu dir kein zwang an

[21:11] <lichtkind> the problem is that that chapter is linked

[21:11] <lichtkind> youd have to correct some links too

[21:11] <lichtkind> and chapterlinks arent traceable

[21:12] <moritz> ok, I mostly corrected it

[21:14] *** dduncan joined
[21:15] <lichtkind> goot i try to fix the links :)

[21:15] <lichtkind> what you think about the text?

[21:15] <moritz> I just fixed the spellin in the "Kritik" section ;-)

[21:15] <moritz> lichtkind: I'm still reading ;-)

[21:15] <lichtkind> hm in the other section i wrote also perl6

[21:16] <lichtkind> someone else changed it :)

[21:16] <lichtkind> i always pleased of comments

[21:17] <moritz> all in all it's really good - perhaps a bit long for a classical "Lexikon" ;-)

[21:18] <lichtkind> it wikipedia :)

[21:18] <lichtkind> its

[21:18] <lichtkind> thanks

[21:18] <lichtkind> but its nearly not finished

[21:18] <lichtkind> 1h ago i wrote http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damian_Conway

[21:18] <moritz> I know that wikipedia is rather known for verbosity than for shortness ;-)

[21:20] <lichtkind> but thats nothing bad

[21:20] <lichtkind> wiki is no paper

[21:21] <lichtkind> and every long articel has a short summary at beginning

[21:21] <lichtkind> every good long ..

[21:27] <lichtkind> moritz also keine verbesserungsvorschl√§ge?

[21:27] <moritz> lichtkind: bbiab, phone&

[21:28] <lichtkind> k

[21:37] *** justatheory joined
[21:42] <Tene> Ahh... It's so good to have linux and pugs back on my laptop.

[21:48] <lichtkind> good tene :)

[21:49] *** ivas left
[21:58] *** devogon joined
[22:25] <lichtkind> moritz: fertsch?

[22:26] <moritz> lichtkind: ja, keine Ahnregungen :(

[22:26] <lichtkind> macht nichts

[22:26] <lichtkind> ich weiss was ich noch vorhab

[22:26] <lichtkind> bin froh das grob gesehen erstmal alles drin ist im artikel

[22:33] *** mjk joined
[22:40] *** mjk joined
[22:41] *** explorer joined
[22:49] *** dmq joined
[22:50] <dmq> happy easter perl6

[22:51] <lichtkind> hello dmq glad to see you

[22:51] <lichtkind> dmq gesegnete ostern

[22:52] <dmq> gleich falss

[22:52] <avar> wook!

[22:52] <dmq> ;-)

[22:52] * dmq is embarrsed to admit he doesnt know how to spell "fals"

[22:53] * dmq is barassed to admit he cant sepell embarrsed either

[22:53] <allbery_b> @spell embarrassed

[22:53] <lambdabot> embarrassed

[22:53] <allbery_b> :)

[22:54] <OwlEye> lichtkind, mˆgen sich deine eier blau f‰rben :P

[22:54] <lichtkind> dmq falls

[22:54] <lichtkind> OwlEye: wovon ?

[22:55] <OwlEye> lichtkind, weiﬂ nicht :)

[22:55] <lichtkind> OwlEye: ich kenne frauen nur aus b√ºchern

[22:55] <dmq> ich hab ein blauer eier. nur ein mal. :-)

[22:55] <OwlEye> lichtkind, lol

[22:57] <lichtkind> dmq:  i was really impressed from your work

[22:57] <lichtkind> OwlEye: das kannst du mir glauben

[22:59] <dmq> welches?

[22:59] * OwlEye knuddelt lichtkind 

[22:59] <lichtkind> dmq on per5 regex engine

[22:59] <dmq> ach, danke.

[23:00] <dmq> :-)

[23:00] <dmq> we all stand on the shoulders of giants

[23:00] <lichtkind> dmq true but you did good work what is always a pleasure to see

[23:02] <dmq> thanks lichtkind

[23:02] <dmq> alwyas nice to know people appreciate ones work

[23:02] <avar> dmq: Hey, get off my regex engine!

[23:03] <dmq> all your regex engines are belonging to ME!

[23:03] <dmq> :-)

[23:03] <avar> ookook

[23:03] <dmq> still, your efforts are much appreciated avar.

[23:04] <dmq> sorry if this week i haent been so helpful.

[23:04] <avar> :)

[23:04] <dmq> lots of stuff on the go

[23:04] <avar> yeah, stupid @stuff ..

[23:04] <lichtkind> dmq what does avar do?

[23:05] <dmq> we need to figure out a way to handle perl6 style capturs

[23:05] <lichtkind> in perl 5?

[23:05] <avar> I figured that out already, you just won't accept my omnipotent suggestions:)

[23:05] <dmq> lichtkind: he hacks OTHER engines. And gives me heatburn, and makes me think, and generally pushes the regex engine in the right direction

[23:06] <dmq> no no, im accepting them. just being the "sober second thought"

[23:06] <avar> :)

[23:07] <dmq> http://www.cbc.ca/newsinreview/apr98/senate/citizen.htm

[23:07] <lambdabot> Title: A Citizen&#146;s Sober Second Thought

[23:07] <dmq> hopefully ill get back to hacking the regex engine next week

[23:08] <lichtkind> dmq if you dont mind i thought a lot about you after our ride because you thinking is in many ways different but you have passion to do thing right and that i admire

[23:09] <dmq> "think outside of the box"

[23:09] <svnbot6> r15842 | Darren_Duncan++ | ext/QDRDBMS/ : more s///ing Perl 5 code into Perl 6 code

[23:09] <dmq> :-)

[23:11] <dmq> avar: it would be cool to come up with a sane representation for perl6 style capture buffer numbering that can map to perl5 style.

[23:11] <avar> with the perl5 engine?

[23:11] <dmq> "sane" being the key wod.

[23:11] <dmq> yes

[23:12] <dmq> it would be nice to supply a perl6 style interface to the capture buffers

[23:12] <dmq> IMO

[23:12] <dmq> god (or Larry) only knows how it would work, but cest la vie.

[23:12] <dmq> :-)

[23:13] * dmq has horrific mental images of nested tied constructs 

[23:13] <avar> I don't see how you'd map the regex byte code to that, hrm

[23:14] <Juerd> dmq: Perl 6 doesn't have tie... >:)

[23:14] <dmq> its gotta be possible to map nested style to incremental style.

[23:14] <Juerd> It just has variables that do roles that have methods that override. :)

[23:14] <dmq> the question is how to make the p5 actually do something useful with it

[23:15] <dmq> i was thinking maybe use pseudo hash notation for it instead of true nested arrays. :-)

[23:16] <dmq> $/{1;0;1;2}

[23:16] <avar> why not use true nested arrays?

[23:16] <dmq> or however it works i forget right now

[23:16] <avar> fastah?

[23:16] <dmq> because nested arrays imply constructing the full tree at match time, but using the hash notation means that you can do a tie

[23:17] <dmq> pr doing extremely evil tie stuff.

[23:17] <avar> you can have a tied nested array

[23:18] <avar> :)

[23:18] <dmq> i thought you couldnt

[23:18] <dmq> actually if im right maybe THATS something to fix for perl 5.10

[23:18] <dmq> a AUTOVIVY tied method. :-)

[23:18] <avar> uh? not? that sucks

[23:18] <avar> FETCH can't return []?

[23:19] <lichtkind> Juerd perl6 dont have tie omd ponies 

[23:19] <dmq> I dont remember the details, and im a few pints too close to the wind to look them up if you know what i mean, but something to do with autovivification comes into play

[23:20] <avar> autoviwhat?

[23:21] <dmq> undef $ref->{$key}; $ref->{$key}{$subkey}=$foo;

[23:21] <dmq> autovivification

[23:21] * Limbic_Region cracks open a cold one and wonders about the etymology of the phrase "3 sheets to the wind"

[23:21] <avar> auto-make keys?

[23:22] <dmq> not that hard L~R

[23:22] <Limbic_Region> eval: my %hash; if ($hash{foo}{bar}) { } \%hash;

[23:22] <buubot> Limbic_Region:  {foo => {}} 

[23:23] <Limbic_Region> autovivication

[23:23] <dmq> you make a sail tight to the wind by pulling on its sheet. If you pulled 3 sheets you did somethign wrong. :-)

[23:23] <dmq> thanks L~R, thats a good example.

[23:24] <Limbic_Region> that's the typical example of when you DON'T want autovivication to do what it does

[23:25] <dmq> or maybe you dont care.

[23:25] <dmq> :-)

[23:25] <dmq> but no question, sometimes it can be "interesting"

[23:26] <avar> that's really annoying

[23:27] <dmq> iirc the problem is that autovivification doesnt propagate tiedness.

[23:27] <avar> eval: my %hash; if (exists $hash{x}{y}{z}) {} \%hash

[23:27] <buubot> avar:  {x => {y => {}}} 

[23:27] <Limbic_Region> avar - yes, in p5 you must check each level in succession

[23:27] <avar> stupid p5

[23:28] <dmq> so you have a tied structure and you want $x->{y}{z} to tie "y" and "z" as appropriate, but what happens is that {z} gets stored as an anonymous hash, and isnt tied.

[23:29] <Limbic_Region> I think I had this conversation with japhy once and prompted him to create an autotie module

[23:29] * Limbic_Region looks

[23:29] <Limbic_Region> yep

[23:29] <Limbic_Region> Tie::Autotie

[23:29] <Limbic_Region> used in Tie::IxHash::Easy

[23:30] * dmq mutters that it seems like its something that the core should deal with

[23:30] <Limbic_Region> *shrug*

[23:31] <dmq> i was thinking we should support an AUTOVIVIFY method.

[23:31] <Limbic_Region> you mean for perl 5 or perl 6?

[23:32] <dmq> perl5

[23:32] <dmq> perl 6 presumably will do all of this in a sane way and we wont worry about crap like tie hooks.

[23:33] <Limbic_Region> dmq - to be quite frank, I don't want anymore new features for 5.10, I want 5.10 out the door yesterday

[23:33] <dmq> did i say 5.10?

[23:34] <dmq> although, why not 5.10 :-)

[23:34] * dmq wonders how big a hack it would be.

[23:35] <Limbic_Region> well, it has now been 5 years

[23:35] <dmq> yes well, a lot of water under the bridge and all that

[23:37] <avar> more 5.10 features!:)

[23:37] <dmq> thinking of other things id rather delay a bit and make sure things are right than push it out right this second.

[23:37] <avar> but ya, development is sloooow:)

[23:39] <Limbic_Region> dmq - I am thinking more along the lines of code freeze for the purposes of ironing things out so it can get out the door

[23:39] <dmq> for instance avar has been working on the regex engine, and id rather 5.10 has a good API in that regard before 5.10 than wait for 5.12

[23:39] <Limbic_Region> dmq - rather than just saying ship it now in whatever state it is in

[23:39] <kattana_> :o regex engines are relevant to my interests **currently hacking on their own**

[23:39] <Limbic_Region> but I keep hearing about new features

[23:39] <avar> mm, features

[23:39] <dmq> features arent necessarily a big deal (IMO), sometimes they are, sometimes they arent.

[23:41] <dmq> things are more nuanced than that. you can add a new feature in a few hours if you know the right things and know what you want. whats important is deeper issues like API's and abstraction layers and stuff like that.

[23:41] <Limbic_Region> I can see we will just have to disagree on this one

[23:41] <kattana_> indeed, or midway through adding a new feature you have to rewrite big chunks

[23:41] <Limbic_Region> from my perspective, it doesn't matter how long it takes to implement nor how much of a risk it is

[23:42] <Limbic_Region> at some point you have to say - no more - otherwise you are in a perpetual state of development

[23:42] <Limbic_Region> and for the guys developing and using bleed, that probably isn't so bad

[23:42] <Limbic_Region> for the poor schmucks who need an official release to be out for a year or more before their shop will adopt it - it is excruciating

[23:42] <dmq> naw its not a matter of disagreeing really, its more a question of having a good handle on what kind of impacts things can have. Big things often have low impact because they are big, subtle things however can have HUGE impacts.

[23:43] <pasteling> "moritz" at 80.193.211.68 pasted "short grammer - why is "add_op" => () ?" (43 lines, 949B) at http://sial.org/pbot/24076

[23:43] <avar> dmq: I was thinking about perlapi functions to deal with regexp stuff

[23:43] <avar> like SvRXOK()

[23:43] <dmq> interesting thought avar.

[23:45] <dmq> L~R, i can see what you mean.

[23:45] *** eden_c joined
[23:47] <dmq> The thing is there are some things you really want to get right on a major release. Once you release a major version you have to be binary compatible with all minor releases in that major version. Which means if you get something wrong it can take a long time to fix it.

[23:49] <Limbic_Region> dmq - look, I can understand that.  I can also understand how difficult it must be for the pumpking wrangling each contributors personal objectives

[23:49] <Limbic_Region> I am not trying to propose an implementation plan roadmap or anything structured like that

[23:50] <Limbic_Region> but still - folks need to see perl competing with the other languages come lately

[23:51] <moritz> .oO( and if perl 5.10 is released in the next two months it might make it into Debian 4.1 Lenny ;-)Oo.

[23:51] <dmq> newcomers advantage

[23:51] <dmq> we have to play behind the scenes and make it look like nothing has changed

[23:53] <avar> did ruby even exist when 5.8 came out?:)

[23:55] <moritz> ruby was released '95

[23:56] <moritz> 5.8 was 2002

[23:56] <moritz> avar: nice try ;-)

[23:57] <dmq> whats seven years amongst friends?

[23:57] <moritz> more than half of a decade ;-)

[23:57] <moritz> time enough to decay (no pun intended)

[23:57] <dmq> feh. in geological terms its nothing.

[23:57] <dmq> :-)

[23:59] <Limbic_Region> actually 5.8 came out about the time I started with perl (2002-07-11)

