[00:06] *** lizmat joined
[00:22] *** geekosaur joined
[01:31] *** geekosaur joined
[02:16] *** FROGGS_ joined
[02:36] *** Kaiepi joined
[02:59] *** ilbot3 joined
[03:16] *** Kaiepi joined
[03:21] *** Kaiepi joined
[06:23] *** geospeck joined
[07:15] *** FROGGS joined
[08:13] *** gfldex joined
[08:20] *** andrzejku joined
[09:04] *** zakharyas joined
[09:11] *** leont_ joined
[09:17] *** gfldex left
[09:24] *** domidumont joined
[09:31] *** domidumont joined
[09:35] *** committable6 joined
[09:56] *** leont_ joined
[11:44] *** domidumont joined
[12:02] *** reportable6 joined
[12:08] *** MasterDuke joined
[12:10] <dogbert2> jnthn: have you recovered from your nasty flu yet?

[12:59] <jnthn> dogbert2: Yeah, by now it's just lingering little bits of cold symptoms and tiredness

[12:59] <yoleaux> 04:08Z <Zoffix> jnthn: made `Foo:D(Bar)` coercers work, if you wanted to sanity check: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/fc99d5e1cd#diff-a81a8247fe9a4f902ab6f14a3314ccc2R1599  FYI: next gonna implement type-checking of result after coersion + trying to do `Target.new: Original` coersion if `Original.Target` fails

[13:08] *** zakharyas joined
[13:09] *** statisfiable6 joined
[13:11] *** nativecallable6 joined
[13:28] <dogbert2> jnthn: sounds promising. Let me know when you're fresh enough to try to answer a question :)

[13:48] <dogbert2> .seen timotimo

[13:48] <yoleaux> I saw timotimo 13:45Z in #perl6: <timotimo> right, very tight recursion is a very good way to make moarvm allocate and use memory really, really fast

[13:49] <timotimo> o/

[13:49] <dogbert2> o/ do you have time for a question regarding a SEGV?

[13:49] <timotimo> i can give it a try

[13:50] <dogbert2> this line: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/blob/master/src/gc/collect.c#L315

[13:51] <dogbert2> 'item' points to an MVMCollectible-something but REPR(item) becomes null

[13:51] <dogbert2> what could cause that to happen, any ideas?

[13:52] <dogbert2> that's question number one :)

[13:52] <timotimo> ah, that one

[13:52] <dogbert2> :-)

[13:53] <timotimo> i thought at first that it might just not have been copied over completely yet and that's why it's still null

[13:53] <timotimo> but that access is going to the copy source, not the destination, right?

[13:53] <dogbert2> I believe so. I don't know what REPR does though

[13:54] <dogbert2> I get this when enabling COLLECTION messages in orchestrate.h

[13:55] <dogbert2> which leads me to question no 2

[13:56] <timotimo> the STable (Shared Table) is a structure containing a type object and a REPR; that's how the repr hangs off of an object

[13:56] <timotimo> the REPR has, among other things, a whole bunch of function pointers that handle all kinds of things, like positional or associative accessing, boxing/unboxing, creation, type composition, serialization and deserialization, ...

[13:56] <dogbert2> could the object, i.e. item be corrupt then since the REPR call returns null

[13:57] <timotimo> maybe have a closer look at the STABLE(foo) first

[13:57] <dogbert2> that can be arranged :) but first another question :)

[13:58] <dogbert2> if you check https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/blob/master/src/gc/collect.c#L328 you'll see that the call to GCDEBUG_LOG is 'protected' by 'if (MVM_GC_DEBUG_ENABLED(MVM_GC_DEBUG_COLLECT)' but that is not the case on line 315

[13:59] <dogbert2> doesn't that mean that line 315 is always executed

[14:00] <timotimo> the GCDEBUG_LOG macro actually also has a condition just like that in it

[14:00] <dogbert2> indeed, but isn't the REPR thing executed at the very least?

[14:01] <dogbert2> or is the compiler smarter than that

[14:04] <dogbert2> ok, now I'm in gdb after the SEGV, i.e. at

[14:04] <dogbert2> 315                 GCDEBUG_LOG(tc, MVM_GC_DEBUG_COLLECT, "Thread %d run %d : copying an object %p (reprid %d) of size %d to tospace %p\n",

[14:04] <dogbert2> gdb) p item

[14:04] <dogbert2> $1 = (MVMCollectable *) 0xb74eb4c8

[14:05] <dogbert2> (gdb) p REPR(item)

[14:05] <dogbert2> $2 = (const MVMREPROps *) 0x0

[14:06] <jnthn> p *item ?

[14:06] <jnthn> Or more interesting maybe

[14:06] <jnthn> p item->flags

[14:06] <dogbert2> (gdb) p *item

[14:06] <dogbert2> $3 = {sc_forward_u = {forwarder = 0x0, sc = {sc_idx = 0, idx = 0}, sci = 0x0, st = 0x0}, owner = 1, flags = 4, size = 112}

[14:07] <jnthn> /* Is a heap-promoted call frame. */

[14:07] <jnthn> MVM_CF_FRAME = 4,

[14:07] <jnthn> A callframe won't have a REPR

[14:07] <jnthn> That debug output is making a bad assumption that everything is an object

[14:07] <jnthn> Which it ain't

[14:08] <jnthn> Might also be a MVMFrame or an MVMSTable

[14:08] <jnthn> So I think the data is fine, the debug output is rotten

[14:08] <dogbert2> ok, cool

[14:08] <dogbert2> it only happens when I set MVM_GC_DEBUG_LOG_FLAGS = 2

[14:10] <dogbert2> perhaps I should comment out that line an see if things improve

[14:10] <dogbert2> *and

[14:11] <timotimo> just guard it against REPR being null, that is acceptable

[14:11] <dogbert2> ok, I can do that

[14:11] <jnthn> But it might be junk

[14:12] <jnthn> There's no STable pointer you can use to reach REPR, even

[14:12] <jnthn> It's only luck that we don't segv at that point

[14:12] <timotimo> oh, how come REPR(item) gives 0x0 rather than access error? hm.

[14:13] <dogbert2> looks as if line #328 is suspect as well, it does the same thing, i.e. REPR(item)->ID ...

[14:14] <dogbert2> perhaps it would be possible to check if item->flags contains to something other than an MVMFrame or MVMSTable

[14:15] <timotimo> yeah, that's probably easier

[14:15] <timotimo> maybe write a short function that gives you either the repr id (or better: name) or something like "not an object" if it's a frame or stable

[14:15] <timotimo> and re-use that for the debug logs everywhere

[14:16] <jnthn> timotimo: Probalby 'cus some pointer lines up and we read it

[14:16] <timotimo> ah, could very well be

[14:19] <dogbert2> hmm, now it crashes on line #265 instead, grr

[14:19] <dogbert2> printf("%d", ((MVMCollectable *)1)->owner);

[14:21] <dogbert2> heh, don't understand what that line does

[14:22] <timotimo> what. 1?

[14:22] <timotimo> that's quite certainly wrong

[14:22] <dogbert2> https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/blob/master/src/gc/collect.c#L265

[14:23] <dogbert2> it does indeed look strange

[14:23] <timotimo> no clue what purpose that had; maybe it was just never actually reached when the gc debug was still being tested?

[14:23] <timotimo> i personally have not turned on the gc debug log more than once in my moarvm development life

[14:24] <dogbert2> I noticed the flag yesterday an wanted to see if it was something interesting

[14:25] <dogbert2> perhaps the functionality hasn't been used for a while

[14:25] <MasterDuke> if anyone wants another problem to ponder on, https://irclog.perlgeek.de/moarvm/2018-01-02#i_15644397

[14:26] <timotimo> MasterDuke: are there any interesting perl6-level backtraces for those cases?

[14:26] <MasterDuke> well, i was running nqp's t/hll/06-sprintf.t

[14:30] <MasterDuke> but and hadn't tried, but let me do that

[14:33] <MasterDuke> https://gist.github.com/MasterDuke17/da472dfe4d1d48c78043b5ac40c2a7d6

[14:34] <timotimo> we can just "do nothing" if the pointer is null for now

[14:36] <MasterDuke> yeah, that's what i'm doing in my branch now

[14:36] <MasterDuke> was experimenting with doing something better/smarter

[14:37] <MasterDuke> i added fprintfs in fixed_size_alloc and fixed_size_realloc, nothing is asking for 0 bytes

[14:38] <timotimo> perhaps we've freed a pointer, thus nulling it, and nulled the size along with it, but are now trying to free it a second tmie

[14:38] <MasterDuke> any way to detect/track that?

[14:49] <dogbert2> I was hoping to use the GC_DEBUG logging in order to acquire more information wrt https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/1202

[14:53] <dogbert2> the orchestration output looks a bit suspect, at least to my untrained eye

[14:54] <dogbert2> when the code in the issue hangs it seems as if we're waiting for a thread which no longer exist

[14:56] <dogbert2> so we have, at the start of a GC run:

[14:56] <dogbert2> Thread 7 run 4 : GC thread elected coordinator: starting gc seq 4

[14:56] <dogbert2> Thread 7 run 4 : Signalled thread 10 to interrupt

[14:57] <dogbert2> that's the last we see of thread 10 in the output, breaking into gdb shows that threads 1..9 exist

[14:57] <timotimo> it's probably a different counting method than what gdb uses

[14:58] <dogbert2> timotimo: you might very well be correct :(

[14:58] <dogbert2> but assuming that you're correct I would like to see lines like this but referring to thread 10

[14:58] <dogbert2> Thread 3 run 4 : Entered from interrupt

[14:58] <dogbert2> Thread 3 run 4 : Waiting for other threads

[14:59] <MasterDuke> whoa, narrowly avoided an ENOCOFFEE error. almost poured the splash of half-and-half on top of the grounds in the grinder waiting to be brewed instead of in the mug

[15:00] <dogbert2> looking at succesful GC runs it seems that threads which have been signalled to interrupt should print lines like the above two but it doesn't happen and the code hangs

[15:02] <dogbert2> there's of course the, not insignificant, chance that I'm totally wrong about this

[15:15] <timotimo> there's the possibility that the threads have marked themselves unable

[15:15] <timotimo> in that case they don't signal, because they can't do anything on their own

[15:19] <dogbert2> what's supposed to happen then, should the GC proceed?

[15:32] *** geospeck joined
[15:37] <[Coke]> I bet you could still use the beans at that point, just have a messy grinder to clean.

[15:40] *** domidumont joined
[15:41] <MasterDuke> if they were still beans sure, but i'd just finished grinding them. i don't know, would grounds wet with half-and-half brew ok in a siphon coffee maker?

[15:42] *** releasable6 joined
[15:44] <[Coke]> If you already *had* coffee, might be an interesting experiment. I also would not risk the first cup of the day, though. :)

[15:46] *** ZofBot joined
[16:16] <timotimo> dogbert2: check the short description of GC_STATUS at the top of threadcontext.h

[16:50] *** _Kaiepi joined
[16:51] *** geospeck joined
[16:58] *** squashable6 joined
[17:22] *** bloatable6 joined
[17:22] *** coverable6 joined
[17:22] *** benchable6 joined
[17:34] *** AlexDaniel joined
[17:39] *** bisectable6 joined
[17:55] *** domidumont joined
[18:06] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: next

[18:06] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, âš ğŸ• Next SQUASHathon in 1 day and â‰ˆ15 hours (2018-01-06 UTC-12âŒUTC+14). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[18:10] <dogbert17> timotimo: tested again, here are the GC_STATUSES'es for the threads when the code hangs: t1 => 3, t2 => 1, t3 => 3, t4 => 3, t5 => 1, t6 => 1, t7 => 0, t8 => 3, t9 => 3, t10 => 1

[18:11] <timotimo> those that are 3 were "unable" and got "stolen"

[18:12] <timotimo> those that are 1 should be doing GC together

[18:14] *** Lurieh__508 joined
[18:14] <Lurieh__508> â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSbcnnrdk: bloatable6 Voldenet bisectable6 â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„

[18:14] <Lurieh__508> â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSutcbb: ilbot3 bisectable6 nwc10 â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„

[18:15] <Lurieh__508> Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSlsccvdend: camelia geekosaur Geth Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢

[18:15] <Lurieh__508> â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSuoynrrczug: bisectable6 harrow nativecallable6 â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„,

[18:15] <Lurieh__508> â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSzsxnqlbewn: bloatable6 lizmat Voldenet â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„

[18:15] <[Coke]> *sigh*

[18:15] *** nwc10 joined
[18:15] <Lurieh__508> â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSjksroxzb: leedo greppable6 bartolin â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„

[18:15] <timotimo> imagine blasting a spam message to thousands of users asking them to join a channel, then forgetting to put the channel name in

[18:15] <Lurieh__508> â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSptolin: benchable6 ZofBot Voldenet â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„â–„

[18:15] <Lurieh__508> Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€ A BUSY MEETING IS GOING ON NOW IN #/JOIN ITS A JOINT MEETING WITH THE DISCUSSION OF RE-ENSLAVEMENT OF NIGGERS..MESSAGE CHRONO OR VAP0R FOR DETAILSmxwgelm: bloatable6 nine ggoebel Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“â€Ã¢â€“

[18:16] <[Coke]> I am not a channel operator, can't ban 'em.

[18:16] * TimToady hates on haters

[18:16] <Voldenet> I wonder if the one doing this really finds this a big problem

[18:16] <Voldenet> for us to ignore this

[18:17] * [Coke] imagines we could also do word bans for a bunch of stuff these bots are hitting.

[18:17] <timotimo> TimToady: that makes you just as bad as them!

[18:17] * TimToady also wonders what the effect on moarvm will be of https://www.pcworld.com/article/3245606/security/intel-x86-cpu-kernel-bug-faq-how-it-affects-pc-mac.html

[18:17] <dogbert17> timotimo: unfortunately the program does nothing, everyone seems to be waiting for something to happen

[18:17] <Voldenet> no point, they'd just use some different words

[18:18] <[Coke]> timotimo: we in the us may be a little sensitive about this sort of thing right now, but no, no it doesn't. :P

[18:18] * dogbert17 has an AMD cpu

[18:18] <[Coke]> Voldenet: ... fine. then we still miss a few hundred lines of crap.

[18:19] <[Coke]> "we can't fix everything so do nothing" is not a great strategy. (also perhaps a US sensitivity atm.)

[18:19] <Voldenet> TimToady: I believe syscalls will become more costly if I understand the implications of the patch

[18:19] <[Coke]> how can I find out who the channel operators are?

[18:19] <[Coke]> (aside from asking mst)

[18:20] <TimToady> Voldenet: that is how I read it too

[18:20] <TimToady> so we might wanna audit places where we do a lot of small syscalls to see if one larger one is available

[18:21] <Voldenet> Welp, doing a lot of syscalls was never very optimal to begin with

[18:22] <TimToady> yeah, I remember back in the day calculating that a single bsd system call was minimum 10,000 ops

[18:22] <TimToady> or maybe I just heard it

[18:22] <TimToady> that neuron is lost somewhere in mists

[18:23] <TimToady> (that was ancient BSD on a Vax, so 10,000 instructions weren't so cheap...)

[18:23] *** leont_ joined
[18:24] <TimToady> anyway, this is also a good argument for doing as much as possible with green threads rather than running every context switch through real threads

[18:26] <timotimo> [Coke]: right, my message should have had a big fat /s at the end

[18:26] <TimToady> well, there's something wrong with that, since the whole point of threads is to avoid context switches, but communication between real threads might have more syscalls, I suppose

[18:26] *** nwc10 joined
[18:28] <TimToady> .oO(with enough hedges, any statement becomes true...)

[18:28] <TimToady> .oO(mebbe)

[18:28] <timotimo> dogbert17: maybe find the ones that are waiting on some kind of lock and see which one they each want. not sure how to figure out what other locks a thread is holding, though the lock ought to have stored which thread is currently holding it maybe

[18:30] * hoelzro waves

[18:31] <hoelzro> no one happens to have an irssi script that blocks messages mentioning a bunch of participants in the channel, do they? =)

[18:36] <timotimo> oh it's a hoelzro :)

[18:37] <hoelzro> hi timotimo!

[18:39] <timotimo> coming back to the six per chance? :)

[18:40] <hoelzro> I think about it sometimes - I miss it

[18:41] <hoelzro> ever since I bought my house and got my dog, it feels like free time has shriveled up

[18:44] <Voldenet> hoelzro: if you don't mind using weechat, there's https://weechat.org/scripts/source/mass_hl_blocker.pl.html/

[18:45] <hoelzro> I haven't made the switch, but I could always adapt that script - thanks Voldenet!

[19:00] *** FROGGS joined
[19:07] *** unicodable6 joined
[19:39] *** greppable6 joined
[20:59] *** evalable6 joined
[21:38] *** _Kaiepi joined
[23:40] *** leont_ joined
[23:45] *** quotable6 joined
