[00:00] <buggable> üé∫üé∫üé∫ It's time for the monthly Accidental /win Lottery üòçüòçüòç We have 4 ballots submitted by 4 users! DRUM ROLL PLEASE!...

[00:00] <buggable> And the winning number is 42! Congratulations to lizmat! You win a can of WD40!

[00:36] *** aivaras joined
[00:36] *** aivaras left
[00:53] *** sandinmyjoints_ left
[00:53] *** sandinmyjoints__ left
[01:02] *** CornishPasty27 joined
[01:03] *** CornishPasty27 left
[01:06] *** lizmat left
[01:09] *** p0llo joined
[01:10] *** p0llo left
[01:27] *** ZzZombo left
[01:40] *** rockhouse23 joined
[01:41] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v rockhouse23

[01:42] *** rockhouse23 left
[02:12] *** ZzZombo joined
[02:12] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ZzZombo

[02:24] *** mirage33521 joined
[02:26] *** mirage33521 left
[02:36] *** Ironhand20 joined
[02:37] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Ironhand20

[02:42] *** Ironhand20 left
[03:00] *** JMoVS29 joined
[03:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v JMoVS29

[03:03] *** JMoVS29 left
[03:06] *** Guest8683 joined
[03:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Guest8683

[03:10] *** Guest8683 left
[03:12] *** tompaw3 joined
[03:12] *** tompaw3 left
[04:09] *** fake_space_whale left
[05:12] *** dc110 joined
[05:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v dc110

[05:18] *** dc110 left
[06:05] *** brrt joined
[06:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[06:10] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: 511 commits pushed by 24 authors

[06:10] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/compare/6f6cd10706bc...86553f4369ce

[06:10] <samcv> rebase

[06:12] <brrt> \o

[06:12] <yoleaux> 30 Sep 2018 17:49Z <MasterDuke> brrt: for function calls in templates, would there ever be anything in the arglist other than cargs? if not, would it makes to try and remove some of that boilerplate?

[06:13] <brrt> .tell MasterDuke no, and no, because the (carg) structure is tightly bound to how the tree is represented and interpreted in memory

[06:13] <yoleaux> brrt: I'll pass your message to MasterDuke.

[06:13] <brrt> samcv: what did you do when you saw the JIT error?

[06:13] <brrt> btw, this is exactly why I made that noisy

[06:16] <brrt> negative offsets are very, very scary buts

[06:16] <brrt> *bugs

[06:17] *** MasterDuke left
[06:17] <samcv> uh i posted it above

[06:18] <samcv>  for <PRIMARY SECONDARY TERTIARY> { say 0x385.uniprop("MVM_COLLATION$_".base(16)) }

[06:18] <samcv> it's consistent for me

[06:19] <brrt> thank you

[06:19] <brrt> I'll try to replicate

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: 41425c81ba | (Samantha McVey)++ | 3 files

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: Update Unicode to 11.0 and update grapheme break rules

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0:

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: Update to the 11.0 version of the Unicode database. Get rid of multiple

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: old rules using now obsolete Emoji rules/guidelines for favor of the new

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: Extended_Pictographic property. We don't pass three of the Unicode

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: grapheme break tests 11.0, though this is about where we were for the

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: Unicode 10.0 tests and is acceptable enough to change versions.

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/41425c81ba

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: 95d7e63c76 | (Samantha McVey)++ | 2 files

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: Update Unicode Collation data to UCA 11.0

[06:20] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/Unicode-11.0: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/95d7e63c76

[06:23] <brrt> hmm, I'm getting a different exception

[06:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: samcv++ created pull request #978: Update Unicode to 11.0 and update grapheme break rules

[06:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/pull/978

[06:23] <samcv> yay

[06:46] <brrt> samcv: I can't get it to repeat :-(

[06:48] <samcv> did you get it at all?

[06:49] <brrt> oh hey, now I do

[06:49] <brrt> awesome

[06:49] <brrt> now all I have to do is make that explosive and jit-bisect can find the bug

[06:49] <samcv> yay

[06:49] <samcv> :)

[06:50] *** domidumont joined
[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: 41425c81ba | (Samantha McVey)++ | 3 files

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Update Unicode to 11.0 and update grapheme break rules

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM:

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Update to the 11.0 version of the Unicode database. Get rid of multiple

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: old rules using now obsolete Emoji rules/guidelines for favor of the new

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Extended_Pictographic property. We don't pass three of the Unicode

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: grapheme break tests 11.0, though this is about where we were for the

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Unicode 10.0 tests and is acceptable enough to change versions.

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/41425c81ba

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: 95d7e63c76 | (Samantha McVey)++ | 2 files

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Update Unicode Collation data to UCA 11.0

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/95d7e63c76

[06:50] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: 80397b20f2 | (Samantha McVey)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | 5 files

[06:51] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Merge pull request #978 from MoarVM/Unicode-11.0

[06:51] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM:

[06:51] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: Update Unicode to 11.0 and update grapheme break rules

[06:51] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/80397b20f2

[06:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[06:51] <brrt> samcv++

[06:54] *** smkelly3 joined
[06:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v smkelly3

[06:58] *** smkelly3 left
[06:59] *** znz_jp10 joined
[07:06] *** znz_jp10 left
[07:09] *** dive8 joined
[07:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v dive8

[07:12] *** dive8 left
[07:32] *** sung21 joined
[07:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v sung21

[07:35] *** sung21 left
[07:37] *** patrickb joined
[07:37] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v patrickb

[07:48] *** Chais21 joined
[07:49] *** Chais21 left
[08:01] <brrt> I don't have many theories yet why i'm getting a negative offset...

[08:07] *** avar left
[08:07] *** avar joined
[08:07] *** avar left
[08:07] *** avar joined
[08:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[08:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[08:09] *** lizmat joined
[08:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[08:10] *** humpled joined
[08:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v humpled

[08:12] *** brrt left
[08:17] *** humpled left
[08:26] *** brrt joined
[08:27] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[08:37] <jnthn> morning o/

[08:38] <brrt> moarning

[08:38] <nwc10> \o

[08:41] <timotimo> mroing

[08:42] <brrt> a frame handler end annotation is placed on a PHI node

[08:43] <timotimo> that'd probably do it if the jit doesn't count phis as zero-width, right?

[08:43] <timotimo> i've seen phi nodes in the middle of BBs a few times

[08:43] <brrt> well, in the case of the expr JIT, they're just skipped

[08:43] <brrt> I think that'd be because a bb merge of some sort

[08:45] <timotimo> it'd have to

[08:45] <timotimo> an extra question is: if the BBs were merged, there has to have been only one pred, so why was the PHI still there :)

[08:49] <jnthn> I'd have thought handler motion could do that for quite a long time...

[08:53] *** Kow12 joined
[08:54] *** jhed90 joined
[08:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kow12

[08:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jhed90

[08:57] *** Dalton27 joined
[08:57] *** Kow12 left
[08:57] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Dalton27

[08:57] *** AlexDaniel left
[08:58] *** jhed90 left
[09:01] *** Dalton27 left
[09:05] *** brrt left
[09:07] *** robertle joined
[09:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v robertle

[09:10] *** brrt joined
[09:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[09:26] *** AlexDaniel joined
[09:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[10:02] *** ZzZombo left
[10:08] <dogbert2> hmm, quite a few test failures all of a sudden

[10:08] <dogbert2> e.g. t/05-messages/moar/01-errors.t

[10:09] <dogbert2>     not ok 2 - MVM_JIT_LOG    # Failed test 'MVM_JIT_LOG'

[10:11] <timotimo> brrt removed the jit log, didn't he?

[10:11] <timotimo> or is that still to come?

[10:13] <dogbert2> aha, that might explain it

[10:15] <dogbert2> test looks easily fixed though

[10:15] <dogbert2> if support for MVM_JIT_LOG has in fact been removed that is

[10:17] <timotimo> hum, i don't see a commit for it though

[10:20] *** brrt left
[10:26] <dogbert2> there are also a bunch of failing tests which might be unicode related

[10:34] *** patrickb left
[10:36] <timotimo> did you get the latest roast just now?

[11:00] *** abra0FI joined
[11:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v abra0FI

[11:05] *** abra0FI left
[11:07] *** ZzZombo joined
[11:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ZzZombo

[11:30] *** gothicmindfoodMs joined
[11:31] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v gothicmindfoodMs

[11:32] *** gothicmindfoodMs left
[11:47] *** patrickb joined
[11:47] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v patrickb

[11:52] *** squashable6 joined
[11:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v squashable6

[12:07] <lizmat> And yet another Perl 6 Weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2018/10/01/2018-40-lesser-than-two/

[12:16] <jnthn> lizmat++

[12:18] <timotimo> lizmat++

[12:19] <timotimo> releasable6: status

[12:19] <releasable6> timotimo, Next release in ‚âà19 days and ‚âà6 hours. 0 blockers. 0 out of 68 commits logged

[12:19] <releasable6> timotimo, Details: https://gist.github.com/5d6dd9b831c7cf4ef4f88b5a94028160

[12:19] <timotimo> statisfiable6: libmoar

[12:19] <statisfiable6> timotimo, OK! Working on it‚Ä¶

[12:21] <dogbert2> lizmat++

[12:23] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: ok I'll try to fix it now

[12:23] <AlexDaniel> not sure why it gets stuck

[12:24] <AlexDaniel> ahhh maybe I know

[12:25] <AlexDaniel> ok hold on

[12:25] *** statisfiable6 left
[12:25] *** statisfiable6 joined
[12:25] *** statisfiable6 left
[12:26] *** statisfiable6 joined
[12:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v statisfiable6

[12:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v statisfiable6

[12:57] *** lizmat_ joined
[12:57] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat_

[13:00] *** lizmat left
[13:02] *** lizmat_ left
[13:04] *** lizmat joined
[13:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[13:10] *** Kaiepi left
[13:11] *** Kaiepi joined
[13:12] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kaiepi

[13:16] *** robertle left
[13:17] *** robertle joined
[13:18] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v robertle

[13:21] *** lizmat left
[13:32] *** lizmat joined
[13:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[13:38] *** domidumont left
[13:39] *** domidumont joined
[13:39] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[13:55] *** Twollwn joined
[13:56] *** Twollwn left
[14:06] *** AlexDaniel left
[14:06] *** AlexDaniel joined
[14:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[14:10] *** MacCoasterue joined
[14:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MacCoasterue

[14:12] *** muIz joined
[14:13] *** bbarenHq joined
[14:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v muIz

[14:14] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v bbarenHq

[14:15] *** MacCoasterue left
[14:17] *** bbarenHq left
[14:19] *** muIz left
[14:23] *** znfrK joined
[14:29] *** znfrK left
[15:06] *** fake_space_whale joined
[15:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fake_space_whale

[15:32] *** Axman6yN joined
[15:33] *** Kaiepi left
[15:34] *** Kaiepi joined
[15:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kaiepi

[15:35] *** Axman6yN left
[15:35] *** AlexDaniel left
[15:35] *** AlexDaniel joined
[15:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[15:36] *** AlexDaniel left
[15:57] *** domidumont left
[16:00] *** patrickb left
[16:05] *** lizmat left
[16:32] *** SAS_ joined
[16:32] *** glitch13 joined
[16:33] *** SAS_ left
[16:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v glitch13

[16:39] *** ankitkk joined
[16:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ankitkk

[16:43] *** glitch13 left
[16:52] *** domidumont joined
[16:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[17:05] *** brrt joined
[17:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[17:07] <brrt> \o

[17:07] <brrt> timotimo dogbert2: yes, the JIT log has been removed

[17:21] *** patrickb joined
[17:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v patrickb

[17:36] *** isviridov_awayCP joined
[17:37] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v isviridov_awayCP

[17:41] *** isviridov_awayCP left
[18:26] *** brrt left
[18:32] *** lizmat joined
[18:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[18:52] *** domidumont left
[19:35] *** brrt joined
[19:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[20:02] *** filthyscumnD joined
[20:07] *** filthyscumnD left
[20:15] *** p_lbY joined
[20:21] *** p_lbY left
[20:39] *** wmann joined
[20:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v wmann

[20:45] *** brrt left
[20:50] *** wmann left
[20:52] *** AlexDaniel joined
[20:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[20:59] *** AlexDaniel left
[21:00] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[21:28] *** AlexDaniel left
[21:29] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:29] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[22:09] *** Ven`` joined
[22:09] *** Casper26OD joined
[22:09] *** AlexDaniel left
[22:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Ven``

[22:10] *** AlexDaniel joined
[22:10] *** Ven`` left
[22:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[22:13] *** Casper26OD left
[22:16] *** patrickb left
[23:08] *** malbxib joined
[23:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v malbxib

[23:12] <samcv> i'm working on trynig to make MVM_gc_worklist_add_no_include_gen2_nocheck contain less branches. since it's called many times

[23:12] <samcv> though i optimized it a lot compared to the non no_check one for when we mark hashes and some other data structures. it's not fast enough

[23:13] *** malbxib left
[23:14] <samcv> i may not succeed though

[23:36] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:36] *** MasterDuke left
[23:36] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:36] *** herbert.freenode.net sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:37] <MasterDuke> .

[23:37] <yoleaux> 06:13Z <brrt> MasterDuke: no, and no, because the (carg) structure is tightly bound to how the tree is represented and interpreted in memory

