[00:10] *** fractal7 joined
[00:11] <jnthn> sleep &

[00:13] *** fractal7 left
[00:13] <timotimo> rest well!

[00:13] <timotimo> hope next day has less bad temperature

[00:47] *** committable6 left
[00:47] *** committable6 joined
[00:52] *** committable6 left
[00:52] *** committable6 joined
[00:55] *** bisectable6 left
[00:55] *** bisectable6 joined
[00:55] *** evalable6 left
[00:55] *** avar left
[00:55] *** evalable6 joined
[00:56] *** ChanServ sets mode: +o p6bannerbot

[00:58] *** avar joined
[00:58] *** avar left
[00:58] *** avar joined
[00:58] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[00:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[01:44] *** Char0n joined
[01:45] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Char0n

[01:45] *** Char0n left
[02:34] *** ZzZombo joined
[02:34] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ZzZombo

[03:18] *** harrow` left
[03:30] *** harrow joined
[03:31] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v harrow

[04:08] *** avar left
[04:09] *** avar joined
[04:09] *** avar left
[04:09] *** avar joined
[04:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[04:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[05:08] *** CeBe14 joined
[05:08] *** pskosinski23 joined
[05:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v CeBe14

[05:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pskosinski23

[05:09] *** Tyrantelf25 joined
[05:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Tyrantelf25

[05:10] *** CeBe14 left
[05:11] *** Tyrantelf25 left
[05:17] *** pskosinski23 left
[05:25] *** cloe18 joined
[05:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cloe18

[05:28] *** cloe18 left
[05:39] *** brrt joined
[05:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[05:47] *** avar left
[05:51] *** avar joined
[05:51] *** avar left
[05:51] *** avar joined
[05:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[05:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[06:02] *** Kaiepi left
[06:25] *** fake_space_whale left
[06:34] *** MasterDuke left
[07:20] *** zakharyas joined
[07:20] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v zakharyas

[07:47] *** travis-ci joined
[07:47] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v travis-ci

[07:47] <travis-ci> MoarVM build failed. niner 'Merge pull request #944 from MoarVM/jitcode-refcount

[07:47] <travis-ci> https://travis-ci.org/MoarVM/MoarVM/builds/418107213 https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/compare/7277670061a1...02de10c42a61

[07:47] *** travis-ci left
[08:06] *** brrt left
[08:32] *** ZzZombo left
[08:34] *** ZzZombo joined
[08:34] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ZzZombo

[08:48] *** brrt joined
[08:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[09:00] *** lizmat left
[09:13] *** ZzZombo left
[09:13] *** ZzZombo joined
[09:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ZzZombo

[09:13] *** ZzZombo left
[09:13] *** ZzZombo joined
[09:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ZzZombo

[09:48] <jnthn> Really odd; after the add_I lowering I see ++ getting slower...

[09:49] <jnthn> Or to be precise, I see a benchmark that goes through a big array and incrementing each Int in it get slower

[09:57] <brrt> that is odd

[09:58] <brrt> RFC: make all JIT logging part of spesh logging (a lot of what is now in JIT logging will be cleaned up)

[09:59] <jnthn> It's very odd. It's not wrongly calling the fallback path, the code generated in the spesh log looks right

[09:59] <brrt> RFC: lets make master the main development branch, and have 'release' for a specific release branch, and continue working on topic-branches

[09:59] <brrt> is it JITted and if so, is it JITted well or badly

[09:59] <brrt> there was another thing I was thinking of, but it escapes me now

[10:00] <jnthn> Yes, certainly jitted

[10:00] <jnthn> The whole main loop ends up totally inlined. And MVM_JIT_DISABLE=1 makes things slower.

[10:01] * brrt frowns

[10:02] <brrt> oh, and another fun thing I can do; I can make a perf map of JIT compiled frames

[10:32] <jnthn> OK, wow, I found an...interesting clue...

[10:32] <jnthn> We do 212 GC runs with add_I lowering on, but only 117 with it off o.O

[10:34] *** brrt left
[10:44] <jnthn> ohh...I think I figured it out

[10:44] <jnthn> 8ffe71a51b7775a2a9 didn't update the write barrier in the lego JIT

[10:44] <jnthn> So previously we'd use the expr JIT for this code

[10:48] *** ZzZombo left
[10:53] <jnthn> Hmm, but changing that still doesn't seem to help

[11:15] *** nine_ is now known as nine

[11:15] *** zakharyas left
[11:18] <jnthn> Very confusing...the symptoms all fit the problem, the fix looks right, but it still doesn't help...

[11:18] <jnthn> lunch &

[12:19] * jnthn back from lunch and still plenty confused :)

[12:20] <jnthn> ohhh...I think I just realized what it is :/

[12:20] <jnthn> The new path doesn't try to use the integer cache for the result :/

[12:20] <jnthn> And the benchmark I'm looking at would benefit very much from it

[12:23] *** domidumont joined
[12:24] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[12:25] <jnthn> Darn, that measn I can't so nicely decompose the op into fastcrate and sp_add_I :(

[12:25] <jnthn> *means

[12:31] *** domidumont left
[12:32] *** domidumont joined
[12:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[12:38] <jnthn> Pushed a few bits, will deal with the sp_add_I using the cache a bit later

[12:39] <jnthn> Other stuff needs doing :)

[12:48] *** Kaiepi joined
[12:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kaiepi

[12:59] *** zakharyas joined
[13:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v zakharyas

[13:32] *** domidumont left
[13:40] *** domidumont joined
[13:41] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[14:07] *** domidumont left
[14:11] *** brrt joined
[14:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[15:03] <brrt> .tell lizmat we are seeing travis CI problems on OS X, and I don't have OS X, so maybe you could have a look?

[15:03] <yoleaux> brrt: I'll pass your message to lizmat.

[15:03] <brrt> e.g. https://travis-ci.org/MoarVM/MoarVM/builds/418107213

[15:07] *** fake_space_whale joined
[15:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fake_space_whale

[15:19] <brrt> what are people using the JIT log for? I'm using it mostly for debugging reasons

[15:20] <jnthn> grep BAIL ... :)

[15:20] <brrt> thought as much :-)

[15:20] <timotimo> i'm using it mostly for bails, both of lego jit and what prevents an op i'm looking at from being picked up by the exprjit

[15:21] <brrt> see, if that's 90% of usage, and the other 10% of usage is me, debugging something strange, then I see no reason *not* to merge it with the spesh log

[15:22] <timotimo> you know, if we run the jit before dumping the spesh graph, the jit can add annotations on spesh nodes using the comments feature

[15:22] <timotimo> so it wouldn't have to have its own section necessarily

[15:22] <timotimo> like "exprjit sequence starts here", "exprjit sequence stops here

[15:22] <timotimo> "

[15:23] <brrt> that...

[15:23] <brrt> is a good idea

[15:23] <brrt> I like it

[15:23] <brrt> timotimo++

[15:24] <brrt> (but where does that leave my debugging purpose... hmm)

[15:24] <jnthn> Maybe we need a verbosity level

[15:25] <brrt> yeah, something like that

[15:25] <jnthn> Otherwise it'll be very cluttered

[15:25] <timotimo> well, we can still keep the jit log as is, optionally

[15:25] <jnthn> I already have the problem of fitting as much as I want to look at vertically on my screen from the spesh log

[15:25] <timotimo> and have it output exactly what it's outputting right now

[15:25] <timotimo> oh, hm.

[15:26] <brrt> hmm

[15:26] <timotimo> i could imagine a folding plugin for your editor might get you part-way there, but it can only reduce a section of lines into a single line

[15:27] <timotimo> i barely ever use folding in vim, but i think by default it displays that one line fully?

[15:27] <timotimo> i have a custom one that puts "n lines:" in front

[15:27] <brrt> an emacs spesh log mode. that'd be a thing

[15:27] <brrt> anyway

[15:28] <brrt> A verbosity level would be a good addition as well

[15:28] <timotimo> sometimes the amount of annotations we have can be a bit much

[15:28] <timotimo> also, i find it super annoying to be scrolling past the - sometimes ginormous - facts lists to get to the spesh slots; let's vote on moving the spesh slots in front of the facts :)

[15:29] <jnthn> I tend to want the facts earlier...

[15:29] <timotimo> well, that's fair

[15:29] <jnthn> But...don't we annotate the type of thing in the spesh slot with a comment on the getspeshslot instruction now?

[15:29] <jnthn> So would you actually look at it much any more? :)

[15:30] <brrt> I have no opinion, other than, let's not overbuild this

[15:30] <timotimo> there's more than getspeshslot, some of which don't yet have that

[15:30] <timotimo> but i can add them no prob

[15:30] <jnthn> *nod*

[15:30] <timotimo> MVM_spesh_graph_add_spesh_slot_content_comment(tc, g, ins, sslot_idx_or_operand_or_something)

[15:31] <timotimo> in that kind of function i could also put more intelligence for some specific reprs

[15:31] <timotimo> like P6int, str, and num could have the value, maybe scalars, likewise.

[15:31] <brrt> Hmmm

[15:32] <brrt> Will spesh comments work on specific opcodes?

[15:32] <brrt> Will spesh comments be noops if we aren't logging?

[15:32] <timotimo> a spesh comment is just like the other annotations, so it depends on who does that

[15:32] <timotimo> spesh comments don't exist outside of the spesh optimization phase

[15:32] <brrt> I'm meaning, logging as in writing-a-log

[15:32] <timotimo> oh

[15:33] <timotimo> in cases where it does something "expensive" like encoding a string to cstring i put an if_spesh_debug_on(tc) around it

[15:33] <brrt> I think I made a function once called MVM_spesh_log_is_active or so

[15:33] <timotimo> but otherwise it won't even consume the va_args if spesh logs aren't on

[15:33] <timotimo> yup

[15:33] <brrt> ah, I see

[15:33] <brrt> yeah, then I'm a happy camper, that would work for my purposes

[15:34] <timotimo> the lego jit functions, i.e. what we have in emit.dasc or graph.c, could under these circumstances also add comments

[15:34] <brrt> right

[15:34] <timotimo> meaning when the spesh graph dump comes after the jit attempt

[15:34] <timotimo> i like this, this feels like a good unification

[15:34] <brrt> but tbh, there isn't all that much interesting in it, if we also have the spesh log right aside

[15:35] <brrt> part of the reason it is as verbose as it is, is that we otherwise couldn't correlate them :-)

[15:35] <brrt> me too :-)

[15:35] <timotimo> i was thinking of, for example, putting a "devirtualization successful" comment right on the reprops, for example

[15:35] <brrt> +1 on that

[15:37] <timotimo> a question: how would you implement "allow an MVMString * to be put in the varargs, and the spesh_add_comment function handles encoding and freeing for you"? i can imagine something like putting a very specific pointer as a marker "change the next argument" and then move every following argument over?

[15:37] <timotimo> also, if we have that, we might want to add that to the MVM_exception_throw_adhoc functions, too

[15:37] <timotimo> that could save a lot of boilerplate code

[15:49] <brrt> me, I'd use a bitmap

[15:49] <timotimo> oh, so put a value in front that tells me which arguments need that treatment

[15:50] <brrt> yes

[15:50] <timotimo> but that'll have to go everywhere, even when the feature is not used

[15:50] <brrt> then it'll just be 0? doesn't seem like it's too expensive

[15:50] <timotimo> i could annotate the function so that only literals are allowed there

[15:51] <brrt> btw, I think we ought to have a void eMVM_string_utf8_encode_to_buffer(tc,string,size , buffer);

[15:52] <timotimo> it does malloc for you?

[15:52] <timotimo> oh

[15:52] <timotimo> you do malloc for it

[15:52] <timotimo> call it once with null buffer and null size and it'll give you the needed size? :)

[15:52] <brrt> hmm, i'd really rather have a static buffer, but that's me

[15:53] <brrt> but yes, that's a possiblity as well

[15:53] <timotimo> is that why the appendf function doesn't first ask sprintf how much space it'd need?

[15:55] <brrt> well, it's just much simpler to do so? btw, I'd use a char[1024] there, as well

[15:55] <brrt> limits help :-)

[15:56] <timotimo> what if you want to append a string that may be longer? :P

[15:56] <brrt> appendf doesn't handle that case

[15:56] <brrt> and, more importantly, you'd be wrong :-P

[15:57] <brrt> the problem we're solving is 'provide information to someone debugging MoarVM', that doesn't need more than 1024 characters

[15:57] <brrt> 1024 characters is..... 200 words? A minor essay?

[15:57] <timotimo> ok, *shrug* :)

[15:58] <timotimo> does va_list support editing arguments on the fly? :\

[15:58] <brrt> If we find that isn't enough, we up the limit

[15:58] <brrt> not sure what you'd wnat with that?

[15:58] <timotimo> it isn't enough to tell the function that one or more of the arguments are MVMString

[15:58] <timotimo> it also has to pass the char * result to sprintf

[15:59] <brrt> ah, I see what you mean

[15:59] <brrt> hmmm

[15:59] <brrt> not sure if that is a thing supported by va_list, normally

[15:59] <timotimo> yeah, some arguments are passed in registers, aren't they?

[16:00] <brrt> i think that's not true if you're using va_list anyway

[16:00] <brrt> but

[16:00] <brrt> I'm not really, really sure

[16:00] <brrt> I skimmed over that part of the ABI

[16:02] <timotimo> As an optimization, during a function call, %rax is required to hold the number of SSE registers used to hold arguments, to allow a varargs caller to avoid touching the FPU at all if there are no floating point arguments.

[16:03] <timotimo> Because va_arg must tell determine whether the requested type was passed in registers, it needs compiler support, and can‚Äôt be implemented as a simple macro like on i386. The amd64 ABI reference specifies va_arg using a list of eleven different steps that the macro must perform.

[16:03] <timotimo> https://blog.nelhage.com/2010/10/amd64-and-va_arg/

[16:03] <timotimo> not sure if a post from 2010 is still sufficiently relevant, but i'd assume so

[16:03] <brrt> you might be able to use va_copy

[16:04] <timotimo> right, but what then? :)

[16:04] <brrt> hmmm

[16:04] <brrt> you'd need at least one more layer of indirection

[16:04] <timotimo> also, va_copy is C99, not C89

[16:05] <brrt> üòí

[16:05] <brrt> yeah, it's a pain

[16:05] <brrt> maybe you can declare printf helpers or something

[16:05] <ilmari> are you actually targeting C89, or just msvc?

[16:06] <timotimo> just msvc i think?

[16:06] <timotimo> ok, register_printf_function exists in glibc

[16:06] <timotimo> probably not in musl?

[16:07] <ilmari> msvc 2013 supports va_copy

[16:07] <timotimo> that's cool

[16:08] <timotimo> do you know if a va_list will somehow allow me to change one value in the middle?

[16:08] *** zakharyas left
[16:08] <brrt> no, it doesn't allow it

[16:08] <brrt> that's not a thing

[16:08] <timotimo> then we're just screwed :)

[16:09] <brrt> not necessarily

[16:09] <brrt> hmmm

[16:12] <timotimo> why not ship our own copy of some printf implementation that allows customization?

[16:12] <timotimo> surely that's a fantastic idea

[16:17] <ilmari> postgres does that, and are curretnly considering switching to that for all platforms, not just c99-deficient ones

[16:18] <ilmari> they are also considering starting to require (a subset of) C99

[16:20] <timotimo> switching to what exactly? bundling a printf implementation?

[16:22] <ilmari> they already have their own pg_snprintf, but they only use it on c99-deficient platforms

[16:23] <timotimo> i see

[16:24] <timotimo> i'm not sure we should actually do that; libmoar is already big-ish; how big is that implementation?

[16:25] <ilmari> 1162 src/port/snprintf.c

[16:26] <ilmari> BSD-licensed

[16:28] <timotimo> that's not that bad

[16:30] <timotimo> and their custom formats are right in there, then?

[16:37] <ilmari> yes, there's a 500-line "dopr()" function which does the hard work

[16:39] <ilmari> https://git.postgresql.org/gitweb/?p=postgresql.git;a=blob;f=src/port/snprintf.c;hb=HEAD

[16:39] <timotimo> https://doxygen.postgresql.org/snprintf_8c_source.html - looking here right now

[16:39] <timotimo> dopr_outch, sounds painful

[16:40] <ilmari> heh, I didn't realise they had a doxygen browser

[16:40] <timotimo> i think it was the first google result i got %)

[16:40] <timotimo> i hope nothing extra from c.h is required for this to work

[16:44] *** domidumont joined
[16:45] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[16:46] *** domidumont left
[16:47] <brrt> actually, i'm not against that...... but the next thing is it's going to be exposed to the world, and the thing after that is an exploit :-)

[16:48] <brrt> here's what you can do, though

[16:48] <brrt> you create a tinyish macro

[16:48] *** domidumont joined
[16:48] <brrt> S(x) which expands to MVM_string_decode(...)

[16:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[16:50] <brrt> and another macro for the bitmap (or whatever), and you do a va_copy, and after the sprintf, you iterate over the copied list and free everything that was in the bitmap

[16:50] <brrt> that's.. actually the cheap-and-cheerful option

[16:50] <brrt> the yak can keep his hair that way

[16:57] *** brrt left
[17:05] *** domidumont left
[19:43] *** lizmat joined
[19:44] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[19:48] *** brrt joined
[19:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v brrt

[19:53] *** [Coke]_ joined
[19:53] *** [Coke]_ left
[19:53] *** [Coke]_ joined
[19:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v [Coke]_

[19:53] *** avarab joined
[19:53] *** avarab left
[19:53] *** avarab joined
[19:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avarab

[19:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v [Coke]_

[19:54] *** lizmat_ joined
[19:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avarab

[19:55] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat_

[19:55] *** avar left
[19:55] *** [Coke] left
[19:55] *** lizmat left
[19:57] *** benchable6 left
[19:57] *** releasable6 left
[19:57] *** bloatable6 left
[19:58] *** bloatable6 joined
[19:58] *** releasable6 joined
[19:58] *** benchable6 joined
[19:58] *** undersightable6 left
[19:58] *** squashable6 left
[19:58] *** reportable6 left
[19:58] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v bloatable6

[19:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v releasable6

[19:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v benchable6

[20:25] *** lizmat joined
[20:25] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[20:28] *** lizmat_ left
[20:31] *** fake_space_whale left
[20:55] *** reportable6 joined
[20:55] *** undersightable6 joined
[20:55] *** squashable6 joined
[20:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v reportable6

[20:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v undersightable6

[20:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v squashable6

[21:03] *** MasterDuke joined
[21:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[21:04] *** MasterDuke left
[21:04] *** MasterDuke joined
[21:04] *** herbert.freenode.net sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[21:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[21:19] <timotimo> my next immediate task will probably be to separate GC stats into managed and unmanaged. after that, perhaps even tonight, sp_bool_I

[21:19] <timotimo> i'd love to know if there's guarantees for the "used" value of mp_int. like, if it uses more than 1 entry, does that guarantee that the value is bigger than what fits into one mp_digit, and is therefore guaranteed to not be 0?

[21:20] <timotimo> does mp_int ever have the sign set to MP_NEG if the value is 0?

[21:20] <timotimo> that way, perhaps the function call fallback could be skipped entirely.

[21:36] <jnthn> Don't know, guess would have to study the code some :)

[21:36] <jnthn> Can if nothing else look at what the function you'd be calling does

[21:37] <timotimo> right, that's mp_iszero

[21:37] <timotimo> oh, it's a tiny macro

[21:38] <timotimo> (((a)->used == 0) ? MP_YES : MP_NO

[21:38] <timotimo> )

[21:38] <jnthn> That's just shouting out "inline me into the JIT!"

[21:38] <timotimo> indeed it is

[21:38] <jnthn> I need to redo add_I and friends lowering to use the int cache :/

[21:38] <timotimo> yes :(

[21:42] <timotimo> how worthwhile do you consider the comparison ops, like lt_I?

[21:45] <brrt> btw, I've been thinking on how to implement jump-on-overflow in the JIT

[21:45] <yoleaux> 20:27Z <lizmat> brrt: if this is about t/spec/S32-io/file-tests.t, then yes it fails on MacOS

[21:45] <brrt> .tell lizmat it's not, it's about the NQP build failure because git

[21:45] <yoleaux> brrt: I'll pass your message to lizmat.

[21:45] <brrt> but I guess you're not seeing it

[21:55] <jnthn> brrt: I guess you mean "expression JIT", since I did a jo in the lego JIT a few days back :)

[22:00] <jnthn> timotimo: Comparison ops are very likely worth it; we avoid in the best case a function call and the whole indirection around finding the offset of the bigint structure, and in the worst case still save the latter :)

[22:00] <timotimo> the fallback ops also use the offset, yeah?

[22:01] <timotimo> not ops, functions

[22:01] <jnthn> Yes

[22:01] <timotimo> will you be adding anything to the oplist? i'm considering adding the op and pushing the commit for it immediately to make conflicts less likely

[22:02] <jnthn> I'll maybe change the signature of the sp_add_I and friends

[22:02] <timotimo> that is probably a much lesser conflict for merging

[22:03] <timotimo> so that wouldn't be a problem i don't think

[22:03] <timotimo> i'm putting an empty line in between in the oplist %)

[22:03] <timotimo> so there'll be bool_I and the comparison ops in their own little space

[22:04] <jnthn> :)

[22:05] <jnthn> Merge conflicts in that stuff are hardly a problem

[22:05] <jnthn> You just run the update_ops.p6 script and add the re-gen'd thing and it's done

[22:05] <timotimo> right

[22:13] <brrt> yes, in the expression JIT :-)

[22:14] <jnthn> Yeah, that's a blocker for porting my new bigint lowering :)

[22:15] <brrt> so, thing is, this is an operator that branches not after a test, but after something yielding a value

[22:15] <brrt> so (if (overflow ...) ? ...) - that's not going to work

[22:17] <MasterDuke> is there any reason we have the files generated by update_ops.p6 in git?

[22:17] <brrt> yeah, we can't run perl6 before we have moarvm :-P

[22:18] <timotimo> the val_offset is just "the smallbigint is 4 bytes away from the union", yeah?

[22:18] <jnthn> Right, same reason we have the stage0 in NQP

[22:18] <jnthn> Things should be easy to build

[22:19] <jnthn> Optimizing for avoiding a totally trivial conflict resolution that happens maybe a couple of times a year makes no sense.

[22:25] <jnthn> heh, so I open my terminal to look at the bigint ops and...waiting for me is the log guard merge issue that I diagnosed but didn't fix yesterday :P

[22:31] <timotimo> hm, i think bool_I can't really share an implementation with any other ops inside spesh/optimize.c

[22:32] <timotimo> since it's - iirc - the only op that takes one bigint and stores an int64

[22:32] <timotimo> there's the comparison ops which take two bigints and store an int64, though

[22:33] <jnthn> Correct

[22:33] <jnthn> Yeah, I expected a small collection of optimize_bigint_blah functions

[22:33] <timotimo> that'd be a third function, or maybe it steals the initial parts from binary_op, the one that checks if the facts all have a common type

[22:37] <jnthn> Yeah, common type may be possible to factor out neatly

[22:39] <brrt> in a nicer world, we'd have time to write a bootstrap nqp and could do without stage0

[22:39] <jnthn> Geth: ?

[22:39] <jnthn> What would be write the bootstrap NQP in? :P

[22:39] <timotimo> write an nqp in C?

[22:39] <brrt> yeah, something like that, I guess?

[22:39] <jnthn> Ewwww

[22:39] <brrt> update_ops.p6 too :-P

[22:39] <jnthn> Rather you than me

[22:39] <timotimo> doesn't sound like fun to me, either

[22:39] <brrt> hehe

[22:39] <jnthn> And bluntly, rather not at all if it's anything I'd ever have to maintain :)

[22:40] <brrt> :-)

[22:40] <brrt> stage0 it is then

[22:41] <timotimo> make a binary that contains libmoar and stage0 itself

[22:41] <jnthn> Geth: y u no report commits?

[22:41] <timotimo> that way noone will notice

[22:41] <timotimo> jnthn: doesn't have +v

[22:42] *** ChanServ sets mode: +o jnthn

[22:42] *** jnthn sets mode: +v Geth

[22:42] <brrt> geth's dead I think

[22:42] *** jnthn sets mode: -o jnthn

[22:42] <timotimo> not death, just silenced

[22:42] <timotimo> is it just me or has the spam attack seemingly dissipated?

[22:42] <brrt> timotimo: actually, that's something we'll need Any Day Now

[22:42] <brrt> either that or the defenses work

[22:43] <timotimo> our users have been begging for it

[22:43] <timotimo> well, i don't see so many joins + klines any more

[22:43] <timotimo> oh

[22:43] <timotimo> we had some yesterday (counting pre-midnight as still today)

[22:44] <timotimo> fwiw, building the core setting is crashy for me at the moment :(

[22:44] <timotimo> oh no

[22:44] <timotimo> my computer is showing signs of serious trouble

[22:45] <jnthn> timotimo: Yeah, it may be the log guard issue I recreated in NQP tonight. I'll perhaps try and fix that one tomorrow.

[22:45] <jnthn> Doing the rather simpler bigint op changes tonight, which is what I've sufficient concentration/energy for

[22:46] <timotimo> how do i test my changes :)

[22:46] <jnthn> For bool_I?

[22:46] <timotimo> aye

[22:46] <timotimo> does nqp have it in its test suite?

[22:46] <jnthn> Maybe

[22:47] <timotimo> it does!

[22:47] <jnthn> Pretty sure there's a bigints test

[22:47] <timotimo> yups

[22:47] <timotimo> needs a loop around it, sure, but that should do it

[22:50] *** avarab left
[22:50] <timotimo> OK, it jits bool_I now; next step is to actually make spesh/optimize call the function i just wrote %)

[22:51] <timotimo> that'll test the interpreter version

[22:56] <timotimo> hard to get it to spesh ...

[23:04] <timotimo> ah dangit, it's building a P6bigint, not a P6opaque

[23:06] <timotimo> i wonder how much work it is to construct a P6opaque with a box_target by hand

[23:07] *** brrt left
[23:10] <timotimo> i just realized i could just turn spesh off for the core setting compilation!

[23:14] <timotimo> optimize_object_conditional needed a call to optimize_bool_op, but now it works. now to turn on the jit :)

[23:15] <timotimo> fascinating, it seems to work. now for the bigint case

[23:17] <timotimo> nice, it seems to work just fine

[23:17] *** avar joined
[23:17] *** avar left
[23:17] *** avar joined
[23:17] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[23:17] <timotimo> i'll make a commit and push it :)

[23:17] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[23:22] <lizmat> and another Perl 6 Weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2018/08/20/2018-34-a-quick-one-from-tyndrum/

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: d7df81385c | (Timo Paulssen)++ | 9 files

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: optimize bool_I to sp_bool_I

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts:

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: Like sp_fastbox_bi, sp_add_I, and friends, this

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: calculates a fixed offset into a P6opaque's body

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: where the bigintbody can be found and emits a

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: spesh op that directly accesses the memory to

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: do the extremely cheap nonzero check on the

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: contents for both smallbigint and real bigints.

[23:23] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM/postrelease-opts: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/d7df81385c

[23:34] *** lizmat left
[23:44] <timotimo> it's not quite a gigantic win, or maybe my benchmark has just way too much overhead

[23:44] <timotimo> my Int $a = 0; for ^500 { for ^100_000 { say "hi" if $a } }

[23:44] <timotimo> m: 6.24 / 6.5

[23:44] <camelia> rakudo-moar f965e26aa: OUTPUT: ¬´WARNINGS for <tmp>:‚ê§Useless use of "/" in expression "6.24 / 6.5" in sink context (line 1)‚ê§¬ª

[23:44] <timotimo> m: say 6.24 / 6.5

[23:44] <camelia> rakudo-moar f965e26aa: OUTPUT: ¬´0.96‚ê§¬ª

[23:45] <jnthn> Yeah, I'd not expect gigantic for that one

[23:45] <jnthn> But still, it's a win

[23:45] <timotimo> we are winners

[23:46] <jnthn> I've got specialized add ops using the int cache again

[23:46] <timotimo> bizzarre, using 100 ** 90 as the value is actually faster, though maybe it's just that there's a not_i in the 0 case?!

[23:49] <timotimo> i think the difference in speed is even less pronounced for 100 ** 90 with unless rather than if

[23:49] <timotimo> but ... *shrug*

[23:50] <timotimo> keeps the code cache and branch predictor free to make other stuff better i suppose

[23:50] <timotimo> and not having to look at the repr to find the offset is of course also stress removed from the data cache

[23:55] <jnthn> Yeah, indeed

[23:56] <jnthn> It all adds up :)

[23:56] <timotimo> i somehow lost the tab with the project that can compile custom division operators if the RHS is known

