[00:31] <MasterDuke> hm, guess i shouldn't use asprintf for just some of the no inlining reason cases

[00:33] <MasterDuke> well, i could just add `if (no_inline_reason) free(no_inline_reason)`, right?

[00:37] <jnthn> I didn't really worry about memory management there, but yeah, we'll have to if it was to, for example, store the data for profiling purposes

[00:38] <jnthn> (Which would be nice)

[00:39] <MasterDuke> well, i was just adding some sizes to the error messages

[00:39] <MasterDuke> `asprintf(no_inline_reason, "bytecode (%d) is too large to inline, max is %d", cand->bytecode_size, MVM_SPESH_MAX_INLINE_SIZE);`

[00:41] <jnthn> oh, I see

[00:41] <MasterDuke> but it's actually kind of annoying, since then sometimes no_inline_reason is just directly assigned to, e.g., `no_inline_reason = "reason"` and sometimes it's asprintf'ed

[00:42] <MasterDuke> ugh, could asprintf all the cases, then always freeing is fine

[00:44] <jnthn> or strdup the constants :)

[00:46] <MasterDuke> could add a #define for MVM_LOG_INLINES to inline.c and only assign to no_inline_reason inside an #if

[00:47] <MasterDuke> jnthn: afk for a bit, but do you have a preference? and, think adding those values to the log message is useful enough for the bother?

[01:09] <jnthn> MasterDuke: I think eventually we'll want it to send those messages to be included in profiler output; I'd ask timotimo about how that might best be done.

[01:09] * jnthn afk for sleep :) o/

[01:54] <MasterDuke> .tell timotimo some conversation starting here https://irclog.perlgeek.de/moarvm/2018-03-18#i_15934422 where your input is requested

[01:54] <yoleaux> MasterDuke: I'll pass your message to timotimo.

[02:58] *** ilbot3 joined
[03:41] *** releasable6 joined
[07:18] *** SmokeMachine joined
[07:18] *** committable6 joined
[07:18] *** SmokeMachine joined
[07:21] *** evalable6 joined
[07:28] *** unicodable6 joined
[07:28] *** notable6 joined
[07:28] *** committable6 joined
[07:28] *** reportable6 joined
[07:30] *** samcv joined
[08:10] *** domidumont joined
[08:18] *** nativecallable6 joined
[08:18] *** benchable6 joined
[08:19] *** statisfiable6 joined
[08:19] *** domidumont joined
[11:03] *** shareable6 joined
[12:38] *** yoleaux joined
[12:49] *** AlexDaniel joined
[14:20] *** brrt joined
[15:24] *** brrt joined
[16:11] <timotimo> MasterDuke: it'll be interesting to have all this info, but i'm thinking what collects it for the profile will go more of a "datastructure, flags, numbers" approach than "formatted strings"

[17:22] *** squashable6 joined
[20:41] *** evalable6 joined
[20:44] *** unicodable6 joined
[20:52] <samcv> timotimo and jnthn, do you want to write some text to include in the changelog for the new debug server?

[21:08] <jnthn> Remote debugging support, optionally enabled with the --debug-port option to MoarVM

[21:09] <AlexDaniel> fwiw it's also mentioned in rakudo changelog: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/ChangeLog-Draft

[21:09] <jnthn> Or some such...I guess we could put in more detail but that's something :)

[21:09] <AlexDaniel> because I thought it's notable

[22:10] *** lizmat joined
[22:25] *** L84DJMmarcusw joined
[22:40] <samcv> timotimo: so do we have multithreading profiler support?

[22:42] <timotimo> more or less. it's not entirely stable, i.e. it sometimes crashes, but the results are conveyed

[22:43] <samcv> so I should add it to the changelog?

[22:43] <samcv> what should I say about it, should I mention it's not entirely stable?

[22:51] <timotimo> yeah, mention that

[22:53] <japhb> .oO( Volatile/May Explode )

[22:57] <japhb> .oO( http://blogs.sciencemag.org/pipeline/archives/2013/01/09/things_i_wont_work_with_azidoazide_azides_more_or_less )

[22:57] <japhb> One of my favorites in that (hilarious) series

[23:25] <Geth> Â¦ MoarVM: 55061b58ae | (Samantha McVey)++ | docs/ChangeLog

[23:25] <Geth> Â¦ MoarVM: Update ChangeLog for release

[23:25] <Geth> Â¦ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/55061b58ae

[23:26] <samcv> changelog is up if someone can look at it and see if all is fine

[23:26] <samcv> or any changes I should make

[23:32] <MasterDuke> samcv: `Fix CALL's size parameter in existskey template` probably could be excluded since the fix went in along with adding the existskey template

[23:37] <timotimo> the strtoi64 thing is also a change that came in with the debug support, and only pertained to debugserver.c iirc

[23:39] <timotimo> also ,the deadlock in unblocking therad GC thing is a thing that debugserver introduced and then fixed, so i would leave it out of the chaneglog

[23:48] <samcv> thanks
