[00:12] *** nwc10_ joined
[00:19] *** dalek joined
[00:21] *** tadzik joined
[00:23] *** kjs_ joined
[00:39] *** nebuchadnezzar joined
[01:41] *** khagan joined
[02:07] *** mtj_ joined
[02:46] *** vendethiel joined
[02:55] *** nebuchad` joined
[04:22] *** dalek joined
[05:22] *** hoelzro joined
[05:28] *** ggoebel17 joined
[05:36] *** dalek joined
[05:57] *** ggoebel17 joined
[08:08] *** ilbot3 joined
[11:15] *** ilbot3 joined
[11:15] <moritz> \o

[11:29] *** FROGGS joined
[11:30] <FROGGS> morning

[11:39] *** ilbot3 joined
[11:43] *** Ven joined
[11:51] *** ilbot3 joined
[12:03] *** dalek joined
[12:06] *** Ven joined
[12:51] *** lizmat_ joined
[12:55] *** lnx joined
[12:55] *** domidumont joined
[12:55] *** ashleydev joined
[12:56] *** arnsholt joined
[13:00] *** domidumont joined
[13:08] *** orbus joined
[13:16] *** dalek joined
[13:21] *** hoelzro joined
[13:26] *** tadzik joined
[13:57] *** dalek joined
[14:12] *** brrt joined
[14:14] <timotimo> brrt: i'm glad to hear you found that nasty bug in the register allocator (or where exactly it was)

[14:15] <brrt> :-)

[14:15] <brrt> wasn't a register allocator bug after all

[14:15] <brrt> don't do drugs and don't take pointers while you may realloc

[14:16] <timotimo> yeah

[14:16] <timotimo> i've stumbled over that a few times myself

[14:16] <timotimo> i think the last time was when i implemented "how many percent of these allocated things survive the first collection?"

[14:16] <timotimo> so, now that nqp builds again, you'll be working on what? tiler serialization?

[14:17] <timotimo> i forget where exactly you were hanging

[14:17] <brrt> yeah, this was tiler serialization

[14:17] <brrt> tiler linearisation actually

[14:17] <brrt> but that is done now

[14:20] <timotimo> er, yeah

[14:20] <timotimo> it's done? nice!

[14:24] <timotimo> so, hmm, tiler serialization is done. so the next step is to make the register allocator work off-line?

[14:25] *** Ven joined
[14:26] <brrt> yeah

[14:27] <brrt> basically, the offline register allocator is needed to deal correctly with multiple-basic-blocks

[14:27] <timotimo> ah, yes

[14:27] <timotimo> that'll be something we really want to have :)

[14:28] <brrt> aye, because we can then deal with conditionals

[14:29] <brrt> i'm currently thinking of a many-small-temporary-structures design

[14:29] <timotimo> i hear conditionals are all the rage in programming nowadays

[14:29] <timotimo> we should support them in our project, too

[14:31] <brrt> dunno, i'm thinking they're a bit of ahype

[14:32] <timotimo> without conditionals i can't decide whether or not they are

[14:35] <brrt> are you going to GPW btw?

[14:35] <timotimo> i'm hoping to! but i've been procrastinating finding a hotel room

[14:35] <timotimo> and i'm still supposed to come up with an idea for a talk, too

[14:35] <timotimo> there was a stretch of time where hotel rooms were discounted and i missed that >_<

[14:36] <brrt> ah, that happens

[14:36] <brrt> you can also pick a shorter talk slot if you can't find something long to talk about

[14:39] <timotimo> i was kind of considering a talk along the lines of "from 1.5 fps to 160" about the white noise thing in SDL2

[14:40] <timotimo> thing is: before that i really should fix the multiple-inline stuff i've found while doing that

[14:53] *** psch joined
[14:59] <brrt> no, you should totally do a talk like that

[14:59] <brrt> that is a great idea

[14:59] <brrt> even if it's still WIP, that is very interesting

[14:59] <timotimo> well, it was just a basic inner loop that i could get gc-free and invocation-free

[15:00] <timotimo> the gc wouldn't have been so bad if it wasn't full-blown Int objects, which require a malloc and a free

[15:00] <timotimo> and the invocation-free-ness won't be so interesting any more once jnthn makes invocation faster this year

[15:00] <brrt> still interesting today

[15:00] <timotimo> in that case i could turn this topic into "texture generation" in general

[15:01] <brrt> okay, the interesting bit is not necessarily 'i did something genius and you should do it all in the same way

[15:01] <timotimo> because that's kind of what i was doing; stream data into a big buf and push that into video memory, then just blit it to the display surface with opengl

[15:01] <brrt> the interesting bit is that there are a lot of vague ideas floating around regarding perl6 performance

[15:01] <brrt> 'isn't it still super slow' vs 'we have a jit so we can while $i++ faster'

[15:01] <timotimo> hehe.

[15:03] <brrt> and you have a really practical example of how you a): hit perl6 performance constraints, b): why these constraints happen, c): how to detect what's going on, d): how you can improve, e): what is being done to improve this on the backend

[15:03] <timotimo> that's ... totally true!

[15:04] <brrt> basically, you can make a vague, 'emotional' topic (performance) very specific, and that is interesting

[15:04] <timotimo> i bet i'm too late to submit the talk :)

[15:04] <brrt> ah well

[15:05] <brrt> still a good idea for a talk i'd think :-)

[15:05] <timotimo> worst case i'll just build a youtube video screencast-style

[15:08] *** _longines joined
[15:12] <timotimo> GPW is a bit earlier than i had remembered :o

[15:19] *** vendethiel joined
[15:35] * nine_ still has to prepare two talks for the GPW

[15:36] * brrt is preparing his thesis defense presentation

[15:36] <nine_> And one of them on an area that I currently rebuild leaving little untouched...

[15:37] <brrt> first thesis of two, before y'all might think i'm nearly finished

[15:37] <brrt> what area?

[15:39] <nine_> I'm trying to fix all precomp/module management issues at once ;)

[15:39] *** zakharyas joined
[15:39] <nine_> The sha in file names issue, the "we can't use precomp files generated during installation" issue, the "we can't package modules for distros" issue...

[15:45] <brrt> oh, everything all at once

[15:45] <brrt> great idea :-)

[15:45] <brrt> good luck though

[15:46] * brrt is having sunday now

[15:46] <brrt> see you!

[15:46] <brrt> (i'm serious about the good luck :-))

[15:55] <timotimo> .o( thesis dance presentation )

[15:59] *** kjs_ joined
[17:00] <japhb_> timotimo: I think I would pay to see that.  People could make their first payment on student loans from the proceeds of ticket sales for that.

[17:03] <timotimo> :D

[17:23] *** domidumont joined
[17:43] *** vendethiel- joined
[17:52] *** colomon joined
[18:09] *** mst joined
[18:25] *** zakharyas joined
[18:30] *** vendethiel joined
[19:28] *** vendethiel joined
[20:01] *** kjs__ joined
[20:16] *** vendethiel joined
[20:18] *** zakharyas joined
[20:47] *** vendethiel joined
[23:36] *** kjs_ joined
