[00:00] *** reportable6 left
[00:01] *** reportable6 joined
[00:07] *** Air4x left
[00:10] *** lichtkind left
[00:21] <pingu> I could use regex

[00:21] <pingu> but I prefer to make my own

[00:24] <thundergnat> Whatever floats our boat. If it works for you and gets the job done, then that's a success.

[00:24] <thundergnat> *your

[00:54] *** derpydoo joined
[00:55] *** thundergnat left
[00:55] *** Oshawott joined
[00:59] *** archenoth left
[01:59] *** bloatable6 left
[01:59] *** coverable6 left
[01:59] *** evalable6 left
[01:59] *** reportable6 left
[01:59] *** greppable6 left
[01:59] *** notable6 left
[01:59] *** releasable6 left
[01:59] *** shareable6 left
[01:59] *** unicodable6 left
[01:59] *** committable6 left
[01:59] *** linkable6 left
[01:59] *** sourceable6 left
[01:59] *** quotable6 left
[01:59] *** squashable6 left
[01:59] *** tellable6 left
[01:59] *** nativecallable6 left
[01:59] *** statisfiable6 left
[01:59] *** benchable6 left
[01:59] *** bisectable6 left
[02:00] *** tellable6 joined
[02:00] *** reportable6 joined
[02:00] *** releasable6 joined
[02:00] *** shareable6 joined
[02:00] *** bloatable6 joined
[02:00] *** greppable6 joined
[02:00] *** coverable6 joined
[02:00] *** sourceable6 joined
[02:00] *** notable6 joined
[02:00] *** evalable6 joined
[02:01] *** statisfiable6 joined
[02:01] *** squashable6 joined
[02:01] *** benchable6 joined
[02:01] *** quotable6 joined
[02:02] *** unicodable6 joined
[02:02] *** committable6 joined
[02:02] *** bisectable6 joined
[02:02] *** nativecallable6 joined
[02:02] *** linkable6 joined
[02:40] *** razetime joined
[02:49] *** Sgeo_ joined
[02:50] *** Sgeo left
[02:58] <rf> Is there any official Raku merch?

[03:08] <raschip> Yes, I think lizmat sells plush Camelias

[03:20] <rf> That is excellent

[03:26] <raschip> Sleep now, g'night.

[03:26] *** raschip left
[03:38] *** rf left
[03:53] *** jpn left
[04:20] *** jpn joined
[04:25] *** jpn left
[04:30] *** pingu left
[04:38] *** razetime left
[05:02] *** dogbert11 joined
[05:05] *** dogbert17 left
[05:15] *** jpn joined
[05:20] *** jpn left
[06:00] *** reportable6 left
[06:01] *** reportable6 joined
[06:24] *** jpn joined
[06:29] *** jpn left
[06:40] *** razetime joined
[07:13] *** jpn joined
[07:15] *** Sgeo_ left
[07:18] *** guifa left
[07:18] *** jpn left
[07:19] *** guifa joined
[07:32] *** snonux joined
[07:42] *** snonux_ joined
[07:43] *** sena_kun joined
[07:46] *** abraxxa joined
[07:52] *** jpn joined
[07:59] *** jpn left
[08:07] <p6steve> exit

[08:07] <tellable6> 2023-01-21T13:53:58Z #raku <ab5tract> p6steve: I to used `.path.path` to get the location of a Resource object

[08:07] <tellable6> 2023-01-21T15:57:29Z #raku <Xliff> p6steve: Thanks!

[08:07] <tellable6> 2023-01-24T19:12:28Z #raku <rf> p6steve: I'd prefer for it to be immutable in my case, but I understand what you mean.

[08:07] <tellable6> 2023-01-25T21:17:23Z #raku <tonyo> p6steve: in what way?

[08:07] <tellable6> 2023-01-25T21:35:02Z #raku <rf> p6steve: It does need to be a .so, in the case of C++ at least

[08:07] <p6steve> exit

[08:07] <p6steve> quit

[08:07] *** p6steve left
[08:51] *** snonux_ left
[08:51] *** snonux left
[08:55] *** dakkar joined
[09:04] *** jpn joined
[09:09] *** jpn left
[09:43] <lizmat> PSA: the Rakudo Weekly News will be published tomorrow, on account of me being afk for most of today

[09:50] *** jpn joined
[09:51] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> take care ^^

[10:25] *** Altai-man joined
[10:27] *** sena_kun left
[10:31] *** Altai-man left
[10:46] *** razetime left
[10:47] *** razetime joined
[10:53] *** derpydoo left
[11:06] *** sena_kun joined
[11:27] *** Guest6344 joined
[11:27] *** Guest6344 left
[11:41] *** lichtkind joined
[11:51] *** raschip joined
[12:00] *** reportable6 left
[12:01] *** reportable6 joined
[12:01] *** samcv joined
[12:01] *** samcv_ left
[12:02] *** sivoais left
[12:03] *** sivoais joined
[12:30] *** jpn left
[12:37] *** grondilu joined
[12:38] <grondilu> Hi.  What's the difference between the "main" and "master" branch of rakudo?  "master" is quite a bit behind, will it ever catch up?

[12:38] *** razetime left
[12:40] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> "main" is the new name of "master" because github is being PC, bluntly put

[12:41] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> so no, "master" will never catch up, treat "main" as the new "master"

[12:44] <discord-raku-bot> <grondilu> noted

[12:52] *** raschip left
[12:56] *** jpn joined
[13:03] *** raschip joined
[13:35] *** [ptc] joined
[13:41] *** kybr left
[13:41] *** kybr joined
[13:46] *** ptc joined
[13:51] *** [ptc] left
[13:51] *** ptc left
[14:00] *** Tirifto left
[14:05] *** Tirifto joined
[14:26] *** TieUpYourCamel joined
[14:53] *** rf joined
[14:54] *** Sgeo joined
[15:03] *** Tirifto left
[15:06] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> is there a way to get a specialization of a multi as a sub

[15:06] *** Tirifto joined
[15:10] <raschip> You can have multi subs... multi methods, and multi submethods... And you can call a multi method as a sub. You need to be more specific...

[15:15] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> i have these multi sub f(Str, Str) {} multi sub f(Int, Int) {} and i want to select the f(Int, Int) candidate and turn it into another sub say it is g then g can't accept (Str, Str)

[15:17] <raschip> Yes, there is a way, but I don't remember how. Let me have a look.

[15:17] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> i guess the only way is to do this``` sub g(Int $, Int $) {   f(@_); }

[15:18] <raschip> call .candidates on the Method, it will return a list of candidates and you can use the one that you want

[15:18] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> then i can index a candidate by using a capture?

[15:19] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> oh .cando can help here

[15:19] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> because .cando gives candidates that could fulfill your given arguments

[15:20] <raschip> You'd need to smartmatch against a Signature. But .cando seems better.

[15:20] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> &f.cando(Int, Int) will give you exactly one candidate

[15:20] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> so my &g = &f.cando(Int, Int) smth like that

[15:20] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> it's a List I think

[15:20] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> so you'd need to take the first and only element

[15:23] *** Air4x joined
[15:24] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> about this multi sub f(Any $a, Any $b) { #`(...) }  my &g = &f.cando(Int, Int); does &g type checks arguments to be Int, Int?

[15:25] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> or it just doesn't care which types are being fed

[15:26] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Pretty sure it doesn't

[15:27] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> so i have to do this sub g(Int $, Int $) {   f(|@_, |%_); } 

[15:27] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> does it work

[15:28] *** derpydoo joined
[15:28] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I wonder if the following works:

[15:29] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch>  sub g(|c = (Int $, Int $)) {   f(c); } 

[15:29] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I hooope I have the syntax right...

[15:29] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> cannot bet my life on it

[15:30] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> we have talked about Captures - here, the idea would be to really just give the same capture to the other function

[15:31] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> but you are giving a capture as a value?

[15:32] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> should be f(|c)

[15:32] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I think it has slurpy-like looks, not a real sigil

[15:32] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> again, not sure, you can be right

[15:33] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> first off: I had the syntax wrong

[15:33] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> it's not "assignment" but just plain parens

[15:33] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> and yes, you are right, it will need to be unwrapped

[15:34] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> |c(Int $, Int $)?

[15:34] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> yep

[15:34] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> and with f(|c)

[15:34] *** sarna left
[15:36] *** sarna joined
[15:37] *** NemokoschKiwi joined
[15:38] *** NemokoschKiwi left
[15:39] *** ispyhumanfly left
[15:40] *** Air4x left
[15:40] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> i think this is coercion syntax for captures or its own syntax

[15:43] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I think this is kind of like pattern matching

[15:45] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> m: sub lol(@triplet (Int $, Str $, Num $)) { dd @triplet }; lol([1, 'foo', pi]);

[15:46] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> it needed the whitespace between @triplet and its interpretation

[15:47] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> this is the infamous "subsignature"

[15:47] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> pretty cool feature, could work a bit better around the edges

[15:51] <nine> main vs. master has nothing to do with Github

[15:52] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> github gave it a big push tbh

[15:52] <[Coke]> ah, the old "PC" complaint, much like the new "woke". If find if you replace it with "treating people with respect", it's more clear.

[15:52] <[Coke]> (it == either PC or woke)

[15:52] *** abraxxa left
[15:52] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> well that's at least as biased for a description

[15:52] <nine> Again main vs. master has nothing to do with Github

[15:53] <nine> It's biased towards the truth. Which is just about the only bias that is ok.

[15:54] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Nope, this is just the usual ignorance towards anything that doesn't fit into the narrative

[15:54] <[Coke]> Yes, there's definitely some usual ignorance involved.

[15:55] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Anyway, let's not start this over. We're having it your way, that should be enough in my opinion.

[15:57] <nine> It's not a matter of opinion or narrative. I happen to _know_ the motivation of the people who decided to make that change. And I was one of them. It is, indeed about treating people with respect and has nothing to do with Github.

[15:59] <[Coke]> windows question: is there any chance of emitting highlighted text that works in all of cmd, powershell and git bash?

[15:59] <[Coke]> (bold in specific for my use case)

[16:00] <nine> Can cmd do that at all?

[16:01] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> well, then what can I say, not sure you are always right in your judgement

[16:02] <nine> I can help you there: of course I am not always right in my judgement. No one is.

[16:02] <nine> The alternative however is to not act at all and that surely won't lead to improvements anywhere.

[16:03] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> not all actions support the right kind of people

[16:03] <nine> Point in case: half the time I'm working on RakuAST I don't know what I'm doing and just guessing how things are supposed to be. Nevertheless we pass half our test suite now.

[16:04] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> anyway, scratch the whole thing; it just really tests one's patience when opinions on certain matters are routinely posed as facts

[16:06] <nine> Who would be the authority on my personal motivation if not I?

[16:08] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> your personal motivation doesn't convert into objective truth, noone's does really

[16:10] *** ispyhumanfly joined
[16:10] <nine> That I want X is a fact. That does not say anything about whether I achieve X or whether X is good or bad. But my motivation being that I want X is fact.

[16:15] <rf> [Coke]: I'm not sure the semantics but you may have to resort to color codes

[16:17] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I didn't mean your motivation, I meant the communication around "master" and "main" and anything that has certain trigger words in it.

[16:19] *** ispyhumanfly left
[16:20] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> nine: can you elaborate about how master is such an offensive word that github avoids it?

[16:20] <nine> What communication exactly? The only announcement of that change that I'm aware of was in the weekly and that just said: "... RakuAST branch up-to-date with the master branch, and renaming it to ‚Äúmain‚Äù, and making that the default Rakudo branch from now on."

[16:21] <nine> If you want to know why Github does something or not, you need to ask Github people. While I'm certainly the authority on my personal motivation, I cannot attest to why a huge organization like Microsoft does something.

[16:25] *** ispyhumanfly joined
[16:27] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> apparently master references slavery tho i admit they go a bit overboard there are non-slavery contexts where there is the word master

[16:27] *** sarna left
[16:28] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> sssh, there have been discussions about this, to death, I got suspended for a week for "keeping arguing after being told to finish" or something

[16:28] *** sarna joined
[16:29] <raschip> In this context, it was ans specific reference to slavery, because 'master' was paired with 'slave'

[16:29] <nine> Apparently I missed that. Can't say I'm sorry :)

[16:30] <nine> Anyway, "main" is also shorter and even more explicit. Would have been a good choice from the start.

[16:30] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Not gonna lie, even ignoring the personal factor, it seems kinda sad that this is what the people who should make this community prospering, use most of their energy to things like this...

[16:31] *** ispyhumanfly left
[16:32] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> but that is not my problem, not here to chase heretics

[16:32] <nine> Which people are you talking about?

[16:33] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> those people who are advocating changing master to main

[16:34] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> i think so

[16:34] *** ispyhumanfly joined
[16:35] <nine> That would e.g. be me. Do you honestly claim that this is where I spend most of my energy? Have you ever looked at https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commits/main?

[16:37] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> No, that's just not what I meant. By the way, then I assume you are not a member of the CAT?

[16:38] <El_Che> This discussion has little sense except antagonising about something trivial. Development moved to main 1110 commits ago.

[16:38] <nine> I am in fact a member of the CAT

[16:40] <nine> Fun fact: this discussion here has been longer than the one that actually lead to the change in question.

[16:41] *** jgaz joined
[16:42] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> it's not even "antagonising", this time all that happened is that apparently one isn't allowed to point out that the general rebranding of "master" is an adaptation of PC terms because... that's a maleficient observation or something? I don't know

[16:43] <discord-raku-bot> <Skarsnik> Nine should spend less time arguing this and more time aswnering my NC issue ! x)

[16:43] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> what is NC?

[16:43] <discord-raku-bot> <Skarsnik> NativeCall

[16:43] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> ohh

[16:44] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> tbh Nine should be cloned, way too much dependencies on him

[16:44] <El_Che> PC is a very antagonising term as it includes a judgement. It sounds to me the only use of the term is to antagonise. I may be wrong, but I am already bored about this conversation.

[16:44] <discord-raku-bot> <Skarsnik> haha true

[16:44] <nine> Skarsnik: I'm not aware of any outstanding topic requiring my answer. But then I've been mostly ignoring anything non-RakuAST for the past year. There's only so many things I can keep track of :/

[16:44] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> El_Che: what is the... PC term for PC these days?

[16:45] <discord-raku-bot> <Skarsnik> The issue about adding a type to refert to 'registered' native library to better hide thing

[16:45] <discord-raku-bot> <Skarsnik> it's like a 3-4 years old thing x)

[16:45] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> tbh main is shorter and more obvious than master so its better whether its for pc or not

[16:46] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I mean, most of my default branches are naturally main because GitHub, not worth the hassle

[16:46] <nine> Skarsnik: oh yes, one of these days I want to give NC a major overhaul.

[16:46] <El_Che> Nemokosh: it does not exist, because the contents of the term only exists in the head of people complaining about PC. It's a meta thing.

[16:46] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> being respectful towards people

[16:46] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> but that also includes a judgement

[16:46] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> in fact a much more pretentious and arrogant one

[16:46] <discord-raku-bot> <Skarsnik> I think it was named master because it was the ref branch for other branch

[16:47] <El_Che> there you go: git checkout -b master

[16:47] <El_Che> everyone happy?

[16:47] * nine still mourns nom

[16:47] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> yeah its a master-slave analogy as raschip pointed out you can see why people are not confortable with that

[16:48] <nine> Now _that_ was a branch name!

[16:48] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> root

[16:48] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> tbh for me the problem is 1% whether a goddamn git branch is called "master" or "main" and 99% the attitude that presents the existing progressive-leftist normatives as kind of a non-existent straw, while judging everyone from that perspective

[16:49] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> which immediately happened here as well, when I used the acronym of "politically correct", lol

[16:50] <nine> I can recommend https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_correctness for the history and why the term is so loaded.

[16:50] <raschip> That's not true at all and "progressive-leftist normatives" doesn't describe this community in the least.

[16:51] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> the least thing "we", both as in the Raku community, as citizens of certain countries and members of the human race, need, is inquisition of "heretics", that one is for sure

[16:52] <raschip> You have any evidence whatsoever that's not the case?

[16:52] <nine> I'd argue that the last thing we need is actual slavery, or war or fascist dictatorships or the like. But opinions may of course differ and this has become very, very off-topic.

[16:52] <El_Che> LOL: "progressive-leftist normatives"

[16:52] <El_Che> ok, I will do something else, I look stupid laughing while working

[16:54] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> oh no, we‚Äôve all become leftists for that name change 1001 commits ago üò≠

[16:55] <raschip> Nemokosch: just drop this discussion, you don't know the community enough to do such generalizations.

[16:55] <tellable6> raschip, I'll pass your message to Nemokosch

[16:55] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> That one I don't think you can judge well

[16:56] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Actually I'd rather advise against such assumptions because I don't want to open up my "file" lol

[16:56] *** lichtkind left
[17:02] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> nine: ironically, I think radicals are doing really well during inquisitions so these two don't seem that unrelated. But I think I missed your question earlier

[17:02] <nine> Skarsnik: I still have a branch that mostly cleans up NC's memory management, i.e. lets it cover all the possible cases for how ownership of some memory may be transferred. A part of it will benefit from RakuAST. I hope I can recover that branch at some point :)

[17:04] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> RSC activity seems to be rather lacking. In the light of that, it is kind of a "weird flex" that mainly the same people are quite active when it's about CAT.

[17:05] <nine> What RSC activity are you missing/

[17:05] <nine> ?

[17:06] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> what is CAT

[17:06] <nine> Community Affairs Team

[17:07] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> of github?

[17:07] <nine> Of the Raku community.

[17:08] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> ok

[17:11] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> there are many unaddressed problems, to name a few: adoptation of modules, getting a working doc site, planning releases or language versions at least, Problem-solving and consequently language design is basically dead, some plans on getting brains on particular problems (like GSOC was), marketing overall

[17:12] <rf> Better start addressing them!

[17:13] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I'm not even saying highly nuanced stuff like the relation of Rakudo and Raku in practice, or stricter guarantees that code that worked at a point, will continue to work (e.g "known bugs"), documentation versioning, ...

[17:13] <nine> It seems to me there's a misunderstanding about the RSC here. The RSC is _not_ responsible for any of that. To quote https://raku.github.io/Raku-Steering-Council/papers/Raku_Steering_Council_Code "The council has broad authority, which they seek to exercise as rarely as possible"

[17:14] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Then I think the structure under it is severely lacking

[17:14] <coleman> Nemo how come you're always poopin in the middle of the pool

[17:14] <rf> ^^^

[17:14] <coleman> dropping absolute stinky deuces

[17:15] <discord-raku-bot> <:(**@rest, *%rest)> why is a capture called capture instead of say ArgumentList

[17:15] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> coleman: how come you always say this when there are important issues to solve

[17:15] <nine> The "structure under it" is really the community of volunteers. And yes, we really need more people just about everywhere.

[17:15] <nine> I think just because it captures the arguments. Probably argument list was already taken for something else but related. Or maybe it's just because Capture is shorter

[17:16] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> If the RSC is not competent in these issues, perhaps it would be good to delegate more permissions to pretty much everybody?

[17:16] <nine> But everybody _has_ those permissions!?

[17:17] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> a simple example: it took me about a month to get access to uploading community modules

[17:17] <nine> https://github.com/Raku/problem-solving/ details the problem solving process, including how to get actively involved with it.

[17:17] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> when I just DM'd the de facto steering council, a.k.a liz

[17:17] <nine> And now you can. And if we find more people who like dealing with that kind of administrative issue, then things will be faster in the future.

[17:18] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> my point is that something needs to be done about that, it won't just magically happen

[17:19] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> really, tell me to go around in all Raku places, trying to contact everybody "hi, would you like to participate in XY, it's so cool because PQR", and I will do that

[17:19] *** sena_kun left
[17:19] <rf> I didn't even ask and I got to work on the new doc website

[17:19] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> probably not the most effective way but that's basically what I can offer, besides actually trying to look up issues and sort them, sometimes solve them

[17:19] <rf> :^)

[17:20] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> rf: you are a pleasant surprise indeed

[17:20] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> among the 5 people who first come to mind for a squashathon reborn

[17:20] <nine> If you think, you can contribute, then please do so! Don't wait for someone to tell you to. We don't have that someone.

[17:21] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> the thing is that I also feel there is more I would need to do than what I can actually do

[17:21] <nine> I don't think any of the active contributors got told to do anything. That's just not how the community works. Someone sees a need (often their very own) and does something about it.

[17:21] <nine> We all feel that we. We all do.

[17:22] <rf> Tbh, most projects are so simple you'd be suprised. This goes for 99% of FOSS stuff i've worked on.

[17:22] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> nine: and let me tell you that I definitely don't mean you when I say "the steering council is not steering". If everybody contributed as much as you do, the situation would be completely different

[17:24] <rf> nine: Are you the person behind Inline::Perl5? If so, thanks for that :D

[17:25] <nine> I contribute a lot of code (but am not even sure I've made it into the top 3 yet). liz does a looooot of "boring" administrative stuff. ugexe _is_ zef and everything around it. I don't even know most of what people in the community do. Basically docs "magically" appeared for me...

[17:25] <nine> I am, yes

[17:25] *** lichtkind joined
[17:26] <rf> nine: Inline::Perl5 is what got me into Raku about 5 months ago, so I guess I have you to thank :D

[17:27] <nine> Cool :) Thanks for telling

[17:28] <coleman> 8 months ago a call-for-docs volunteer went out in the newsletter and that's how i got involved

[17:28] <coleman> there was a flurry of initial activity, then none for a while, and now we're really doing it

[17:29] <coleman> The lack of activity in that middle period is indeed partially attributable to the ambiguities Nemo is always complaining about

[17:29] <nine> Yeah, the struggle for any effort is always to survive the slump after the initial excitement

[17:29] <coleman> I think they're real issues, fwiw. But I dunno. Chillax?

[17:30] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> that's really good news. Yesterday finanalyst joined our little rituale - Raku Study Group SF, every second sunday 13pm west coast time iirc - that was a pleasant surprise

[17:30] <rf> I got 3 people trying out Raku tomorrow at a hackathon with me

[17:31] <nine> Btw. the best way to guarantee that code that used to work will keep working is to write spec tests. We do have a very extensive test suite but it's by far not complete. So we have to resort to running published module's test suites as well before a release. But those can fail due to unrelated issues, so it's not water tight either.

[17:32] <coleman> nine: over the next few weeks take notes on that stuff. I'd like to work on CI for core stuff after docs is done

[17:32] <coleman> I'm unfamiliar with how/where stuff runs, beyond JJ's Azure account and whatever GH Actions this or that repo is using.

[17:33] <coleman> I'm confident we can design something fast and effective and not commit to huge monies. :)

[17:33] <rf> I really like SparrowCI by melezhik, its good stuff :D

[17:33] <rf> And he's fronting the costs like a gentleman

[17:33] <coleman> I like it, too. I think it will be in the mix.

[17:34] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> yes, that can definitely go to the killer feature list

[17:34] <coleman> Most open source projects have a mix of CI; often there's fast stuff on GH Actions and then more chonky integration tests on dedicated infra

[17:35] <coleman> One project of fairly high complexity that I'd point to is the LXD project

[17:35] <ugexe> there is a running grant for our CI - the Raku CI Bot Grant 

[17:35] <coleman> they have a fairly nice CI setup

[17:35] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> melezhik is also among the people who did more than one can keep track of. There was a Rakudo bug test environment as well, for example

[17:35] <coleman> ugexe: that is great to know; can you link to it?

[17:35] <coleman> I saw a repo for a bot but didn't know what it was

[17:36] *** dakkar left
[17:37] <coleman> ugexe: I'll tag you on an issue

[17:37] <ugexe> coleman: https://www.perlfoundation.org/running-grants.html its the second item on the list

[17:39] <coleman> ty

[17:45] <nine> Ah, ugexe beat me to pointing that out :)

[17:48] <nine> patrickb: people are curious about the Raku CI integration bot!

[17:51] <tonyo> .

[17:53] *** sena_kun joined
[18:00] *** reportable6 left
[18:00] *** reportable6 joined
[18:01] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Patrick is cool

[18:04] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> there is also something that one has to plan for... the formal breakup. There might be a day when the Perl5 folks ultimately say, "we are Perl, and Raku is not bringing anything to our table"

[18:09] <tonyo> lizmat must've thought many times of that

[18:11] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> from what I know, one can donate specifically to Perl vs Raku development for YAS. Curious about the numbers...

[18:17] *** jpn left
[18:37] <rf> I would buy 100+ Camelia stickers if they were available

[18:38] <rf> Mainly to give out at events :)

[18:44] *** abraxxa-home joined
[18:46] *** abraxxa-home left
[18:48] *** abraxxa-home joined
[18:51] <[Coke]> I'm pretty sure the formal breakup already happened at some point in the last 20 years.

[18:52] <[Coke]> Not sure what would be left other than perhaps the non-profit group (which is for the two separate things)

[18:55] <tonyo> TPF site is still in use, no?

[18:56] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> not to imply that Raku core development was very prospering financially but still, I'd think it does make a difference if the Perl part of "The Perl and Raku Foundation" just disappeared from the back of the Raku community completely

[18:57] <[Coke]> Ok, but do you think that's happening?

[18:58] <[Coke]> As a former member of the TPF on the Grants Committee, I've been pleasantly surprised with the TPF's willingness to also support Raku as a distinct thing, esp. with the recent naming changes.

[19:00] <[Coke]> Obviating the need for separate legal infrastructure (like we had for a while with the Parrot Foundation)

[19:01] *** cfa joined
[19:01] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> I don't know anything about that. It just hit me that the Perl macroverse has still more to offer for Raku than vice versa. I'm not even saying that this is the fault of the language or the people working on it, simply it seems that "we" have nothing to offer to them that they could use

[19:02] <rf> We have Raku to offer them.

[19:02] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> They have long made up their minds that backwards compatibility is "the killer feature" of Perl

[19:02] <[Coke]> (sadface: wikipedia removed the page for Parrot Foundation)

[19:04] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> Methinks backwards compatibility is indeed the feature that killed Perl üòÇ üôä

[19:04] <cfa> some folks just prefer perl to raku, and that's okay too

[19:06] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> But yeah, joke aside, the main thing Raku could offer is all the concepts worked out into a language and ecosystem. And that's exactly what Perl won't take.

[19:06] <cfa> but perl did borrow much from raku / p6

[19:06] <cfa> some thing more successfully than others

[19:07] <cfa> things*

[19:10] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> probably you have a point but we could also say that with some things (like typing, function signatures, rich control structures), there was like natural convergence that one could hardly "trigger" just by the charm of Perl6/Raku

[19:11] <rf> No rakudo news today?

[19:11] <raschip> lizmat said she will publish tomorrow

[19:12] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> lizmat announced that she would be away for most of today

[19:12] <rf> Must have missed that, thanks!

[19:30] *** jpn joined
[19:55] *** grondilu left
[19:59] <discord-raku-bot> <p6steve> https://conf.raku.org just got posted to reddit

[20:12] *** jpn left
[20:12] <raschip> Posted by u/liztormato Rakoon üá∫üá¶ üïäüåª 11 hours ago

[20:14] <raschip> I don't mean to correct you, just wondering why did it take 11 hours to hit the website...

[20:18] <El_Che> raschip: filteeing on best instead of new

[20:19] <raschip> right, it takes some time to reach the top. My other thought was that it was posted to other communities besides r/rakulang

[20:20] <El_Che> I saw it hours ago

[20:20] <tonyo> just release fez:ver<40> - this should fix a lot of the bundling hanging/etc

[20:20] <raschip> https://www.reddit.com/r/perl/comments/10mwab0/is_it_possible_to_rename_greps_default_variable/ --> should we tell them?

[20:23] <El_Che> the rfc?

[20:23] <raschip> üéâüéâüéâüéâüéâ Yay! New fez release

[20:24] <raschip> Is there a bot that takes notes for the weekly still?

[20:24] <raschip> They are looking for Raku

[20:24] <El_Che> _weeky: without the underscore

[20:25] <raschip> weekly: new fez release

[20:25] <notable6> raschip, Noted! (weekly)

[20:25] <raschip> tonyo++

[20:27] <rf> tonyo++

[20:27] *** jpn joined
[20:28] <discord-raku-bot> <p6steve> ahh - sorry - 'just' is subjective

[20:29] <discord-raku-bot> <p6steve> ahh - sorry - 'just' is subjective

[20:41] *** rf left
[20:52] *** epony left
[20:52] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> yeah it's "just" for me as well, not really following reddit

[20:57] *** raschip left
[21:00] *** jpn left
[21:05] <discord-raku-bot> <p6steve> can't perlers go grep( {$^a =~ /1/} ,@array), then

[21:07] <discord-raku-bot> <p6steve> Bareword found where operator expected at -e line 1, near "$^a"     (Missing operator before a?)

[21:08] <discord-raku-bot> <p6steve> no matter how much perl tries to claw back from raku (and I heartily encourage that) it will never get close

[21:08] *** abraxxa-home left
[21:15] <tonyo> next version is going to start dist management

[21:17] *** epony joined
[21:23] *** jpn joined
[21:57] *** derpydoo left
[22:15] *** japhb joined
[22:19] *** andreoss` left
[22:19] *** jpn left
[22:39] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> tonyo++

[23:07] *** Voldenet_ joined
[23:09] *** Voldenet left
[23:09] *** Voldenet_ is now known as Voldenet

[23:23] *** rf joined
[23:24] <rf> Hey folks, I've been working fairly hard to add more features to Humming-Bird, the newest are in this PR https://github.com/rawleyfowler/Humming-Bird/pull/31, if anyone has spare time I don't want to merge this big of a change without some eyes seeing it. Thanks :D

[23:25] <rf> without another set of eyes*

[23:29] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> sorry for my ignorance but what is the use case of advices?

[23:29] *** sena_kun left
[23:29] *** lichtkind left
[23:30] <rf> Sometimes you need EOL hooks for auditing, logging etc of requests

[23:30] <rf> Like for example, if you want to see how many times there was a 500, it would be best to add it as an advice

[23:31] <rf> Or, say you want to run a job or append a header to every response

[23:33] <rf> Definetley not as useful as middleware, but I find most frameworks have this mechanism.

[23:35] <tonyo> .seen jonathanstowe

[23:35] <tellable6> tonyo, I haven't seen jonathanstowe around

[23:36] <tonyo> i thought jonathan was in here once a moon cycle

[23:40] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> üëç

[23:41] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> not sure if this is "review worthy" observation but did you know that method calls can be interpolated to a string without a block as well? The parens can give it away for the parser.

[23:41] *** derpydoo joined
[23:43] <discord-raku-bot> <Nemokosch> also, it seems that the new entries in META6.json have extra indentation; is that intentional?

[23:58] <rf> I don't see extra indentation

[23:58] <rf> Also I did not no that, thanks!

[23:58] <rf> know*

[23:59] *** jgaz left
