[01:12] <vrurg> .tell patrickb The idea of raku binary is implemented and will be in the next release. I'd like to ask you to take care of PERL6_HOME and track down all of its use and naming, if possible.

[01:12] <tellable6> vrurg, I'll pass your message to patrickb

[01:17] *** evalable6 left
[01:19] *** evalable6 joined
[01:22] *** Kaiepi left
[01:25] *** Kaiepi joined
[01:47] *** Xliff joined
[03:00] *** AlexDani` joined
[03:04] *** AlexDaniel left
[03:29] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Kaiepi++ created pull request #3319: Make a couple improvements to Metamodel::Naming

[03:29] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/pull/3319

[03:33] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: vrurg++ created pull request #3320: Change perl5 to Perl

[03:33] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/pull/3320

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: f6c93ef7ba | (Vadim Belman)++ | 2 files

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: Add --force-rebuild command line option

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: 

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: Forces rebuild of all required components like NQP and, possibly,

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: MoarVM. --force-rebuild tries to pretend we're building in an empty or

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: almost empty environment. I.e.:

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: 

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: perl Configure.pl --backends=moar --gen-nqp --force-rebuild

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: <…commit message has 6 more lines…>

[03:43] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/f6c93ef7ba

[04:11] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: 8e51400f7d | (Vadim Belman)++ | 3rdparty/nqp-configure

[04:11] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: nqp-configure submodule update

[04:11] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo/configure-rebuild-all: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/8e51400f7d

[05:35] *** [Coke] left
[05:42] *** [Coke] joined
[05:42] *** [Coke] left
[05:42] *** [Coke] joined
[07:12] *** maettu joined
[07:21] <nine> patrickb: well I've always said that packaging star for Linux distros doesn't make sense. Nevertheless people seem to have done that (IIRC), so I'm a bit conflicted. But certainly much less opposed than to rakudo source release renaming.

[07:21] <tellable6> nine, I'll pass your message to patrickb

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 9528bd05fc | (Vadim Belman)++ | t/harness6

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Change perl5 to Perl in help message

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: The option name is not changed to not possibly break 3rd party tools.

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/9528bd05fc

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: da03d103fe | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | t/harness6

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Merge pull request #3320 from vrurg/cleanup-perl5-name

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: [WIP] Change perl5 to Perl

[08:40] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/da03d103fe

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: dabf83a2a7 | (Ben Davies)++ | src/Perl6/Metamodel/Naming.nqp

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Prevent NQPMu from getting returned by Metamodel::Naming methods

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/dabf83a2a7

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 88741d94cd | (Ben Davies)++ | src/Perl6/Metamodel/Naming.nqp

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Lazily set type shortnames

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: When setting the name of a type, its shortname would get set at the

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: same time, but this is work that doesn't need to be done until the

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: shortname metamethod gets called.

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 

[08:49] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: This makes creating a new role named "Foo::Bar[Baz::Qux[Quux]]" around

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 5% faster.

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/88741d94cd

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 9fa4396f61 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | src/Perl6/Metamodel/Naming.nqp

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Merge pull request #3319 from Kaiepi/naming

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: 

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: Make a couple improvements to Metamodel::Naming

[08:50] <Geth_> ¦ rakudo: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/9fa4396f61

[08:57] *** sena_kun joined
[09:20] *** Altai-man_ joined
[09:22] *** sena_kun left
[09:36] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[09:36] *** AlexDaniel left
[09:36] *** AlexDaniel joined
[09:40] <|Tux|> Rakudo version 2019.07.1-497-g9fa4396f6 - MoarVM version 2019.07.1-321-g97615be0a

[09:40] <|Tux|> csv-test-xs-20      0.427 -  0.431

[09:40] <|Tux|> csv-ip5xs           0.714 -  0.724

[09:40] <|Tux|> test-t --race       0.899 -  0.930

[09:40] <|Tux|> test-t              1.741 -  1.747

[09:40] <|Tux|> test                6.299 -  6.482

[09:40] <|Tux|> csv-ip5xs-20        6.361 -  6.608

[09:40] <|Tux|> test-t-20 --race    9.277 -  9.422

[09:40] <|Tux|> csv-parser         21.426 - 21.486

[09:40] <|Tux|> test-t-20          28.380 - 30.382

[10:04] *** sena_kun joined
[10:05] *** Altai-man_ left
[10:51] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: I don't know what happened

[10:51] <AlexDaniel> but I'm not missing the opportunity this time

[10:51] <AlexDaniel> https://github.com/Raku

[10:58] <jnthn> AlexDaniel: Nice!

[10:58] <tellable6> 2019-11-23T12:12:06Z #raku-dev <tbrowder> jnthn any objections to PR #3310?

[10:58] <tellable6> 2019-11-23T21:12:19Z #raku-dev <vrurg> jnthn Just would like to remind you to review final changes in R#3199 and R#3272 when you have time. Sorry for bothering, but 3199 is rather big and I'd like to avoid possible merge conflicts.

[10:58] <tellable6> 2019-11-24T04:07:24Z #raku-dev <vrurg> jnthn Also, would you mind enabling `$.method: <arguments>` call syntax? It's pretty simple grammar fix in R#3317 https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/pull/3317

[10:58] <jnthn> Uff.

[10:58] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: yeah, it was a rollercoaster

[10:58] * jnthn spent almost the whole weekend with a headache, which wasn't ideal for...well, anything really...

[10:59] <AlexDaniel> here's what happened: there was a user with nickname raku, and liz asked them if they will agree to change it to something else

[10:59] <AlexDaniel> and they did!

[10:59] <AlexDaniel> but we didn't notice

[10:59] <AlexDaniel> a real fail on our side, yeah

[11:00] <AlexDaniel> then, when we *did* notice, it was already registered by somebody

[11:00] <AlexDaniel> I don't know what happened then, but I was F5-ing relatively often

[11:00] <AlexDaniel> btw here's this awesome kind person who agreed to change their username: https://github.com/rakucmr/

[11:01] <jnthn> That's very kind of them

[11:02] <jnthn> AlexDaniel++ lizmat++ 

[11:03] <lizmat> AlexDaniel++ :-)

[11:07] <AlexDaniel> if you want to start a new repo please do it in the new org

[11:07] <AlexDaniel> I'll get to thinking about transferring stuff later after the release

[11:07] <AlexDaniel> I guess we'll start with a few repos and see how it goes

[11:08] <AlexDaniel> I invited all perl6 owners to Raku org

[11:09] <AlexDaniel> btw if anybody wants to bikeshed https://github.com/Raku vs https://github.com/raku please do it now :D

[11:09] <AlexDaniel> it's Raku currently

[11:10] <sena_kun> AlexDaniel, "Raku" plz

[11:11] <jnthn> I can't be R-sed to bikeshed this... :P

[11:11] <AlexDaniel> weekly: we have https://github.com/Raku ! Big thanks to https://github.com/rakucmr/ for letting us use Raku by changing their username ♥♥♥

[11:11] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted! (weekly)

[11:12] <AlexDaniel> but it was /perl6 !

[11:12] <AlexDaniel> not Perl6 :)

[11:12] <jnthn> If you rename it to raku, then back to Raku, then do we get a redirect raku => Raku for anyone who types it wrong? :)

[11:13] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: github doesn't care, both Raku and raku work, it's just what github will put by default in links

[11:13] <jnthn> Oh, intersting... https://github.com/raku

[11:13] <jnthn> Yeah, just noticed :)

[11:13] <jnthn> Wonder how I missed that for years...works for /moarvm too :)

[11:21] <AlexDaniel> rba: here? I need help verifying raku.org domain on github

[11:21] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: what do you need?

[11:21] <AlexDaniel> a TXT record in DNS

[11:22] <lizmat> ah, I used to do DNS for raku.org, but no more...

[11:23] <rba> AlexDaniel: here? yes.

[11:26] <AlexDaniel> pm-ed :)

[11:28] <AlexDaniel> rba: done, thanks!

[11:28] <AlexDaniel> https://github.com/Raku

[11:28] <AlexDaniel> “Verified”

[11:42] *** [Coke]_ joined
[11:42] *** [Coke]_ left
[11:42] *** [Coke]_ joined
[11:42] *** AlexDani` joined
[11:46] *** Geth joined
[11:47] *** TreyHarr1 joined
[11:48] *** [Coke] left
[11:48] *** TreyHarris left
[11:48] *** AlexDaniel left
[11:48] *** Geth_ left
[11:49] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[11:49] *** AlexDaniel left
[11:49] *** AlexDaniel joined
[11:54] *** jmerelo joined
[11:54] *** kurahaupo is now known as CurriedHippo

[11:59] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: btw nobody besides you and a few other people have any privs to the doc repo

[11:59] <AlexDaniel> and that's the reason assigns dropped

[12:00] <AlexDaniel> you need to invite people to the org, e.g. those who work on the doc repo the most

[12:00] <jmerelo> I think org owners get it by default

[12:00] <jmerelo> But I can do that, of course. I'll create a team to take care of that, instead of doing it by repo. That way I can add it to other repos such as Documentable.

[12:02] <AlexDaniel> sure, thanks

[12:02] <AlexDaniel> please don't transfer any other big repo yet, like roast and other stuff

[12:03] *** Altai-man_ joined
[12:03] <AlexDaniel> at the very least I want all owners to accept invites, as well as probably other main contributors

[12:04] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel Wasn't gonna

[12:05] *** CurriedHippo is now known as kurahaupo

[12:05] *** sena_kun left
[12:06] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel Travis-ci.com is activated by default in all repositories now: https://travis-ci.com/organizations/Raku/repositories

[12:06] <jmerelo> BTW, the old "perl6" organization is also called "Raku" and has exactly the same logo. I don't know if I have the privs, but maybe we should change something about it to make it less confusing

[12:07] <jmerelo> Like Raku (a.k.a Perl6) or something like that

[12:07] <jmerelo> I have the privs, apparently.

[12:07] *** |Tux| left
[12:08] *** |Tux| joined
[12:10] <AlexDaniel> camelia with a suitcase? :)

[12:12] <jmerelo> Hm

[12:13] <jmerelo> " Profile name contains unicode characters above 0xffff "

[12:14] <jmerelo> Changed to Raku ⚠

[12:21] *** jmerelo left
[12:25] *** jmerelo joined
[12:25] <rba> May we please NOT move repos from perl6 org to raku org in github without prior message. With the repos for the websites which auto-update from repo, this unlikely to work without manual intervention on the webhosting system.

[12:26] <jmerelo> rba: OK. Not the case for docs, I guess, right?

[12:28] <rba> jmerelo: Yes as you updload the build yourself, you sit in the drivers seat for docs from the webhosting side.

[12:29] <jmerelo> rba: we need to change that, anyway, but we'll do that already with the new repo.

[12:29] <rba> But my message is, that repo moves must be coordinated as links to repos might be at unknown places too...

[12:30] <jmerelo> Sure :+1:

[12:44] <AlexDaniel> I changed the logo https://github.com/perl6 :)

[12:44] <AlexDaniel> yeah I didn't expect anyone to move any repo yet…

[12:45] <lizmat> :-)

[12:52] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: that sweet.

[12:52] <jmerelo> (that's sweet, I meant to say)

[12:54] <rba> AlexDaniel++

[12:54] * rba very much likes the logo on https://github.com/perl6

[12:58] <AlexDaniel> rba: my irc client is acting weird, don't know if you received the message, but: https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/raku-dev?date=2019-11-25

[12:59] *** AlexDaniel left
[12:59] *** AlexDaniel joined
[12:59] *** AlexDaniel left
[12:59] *** AlexDaniel joined
[13:08] *** jmerelo left
[14:01] <lizmat> notable6: weekly

[14:01] <notable6> lizmat, 6 notes: https://gist.github.com/48312a7aa6b318b44efe924cd9055cd0

[14:04] *** sena_kun joined
[14:05] *** Altai-man_ left
[14:10] <Guest38485> lizmat: MoarVM was released last week ...

[14:10] <lizmat> yeah, but after the weekly

[14:10] <Guest38485> But won't there be a new Weekly Today?

[14:11] <lizmat> ah, yes, sorry, misunderstood

[14:11] <lizmat> yes, it will be mentioned

[14:11] *** [Coke]_ is now known as [Cok]e

[14:11] *** [Cok]e is now known as [Coke]

[14:11] <Guest38485> Cool, I guess the rest is up to AlexDaniel

[14:12] <lizmat> yeah, no pressure  :-)

[14:12] <AlexDaniel> Guest38485: your! username! please!

[14:12] <AlexDaniel> .seen [Cok]e

[14:12] <tellable6> AlexDaniel, I haven't seen [Cok]e around, did you mean [Coke]?

[14:13] <AlexDaniel> hmmm weird, I thought it'd automatically get it

[14:13] *** MasterDuke left
[14:28] <vrurg> m: class Foo { method foo(|c) { say c.perl } }; Foo.new.foo: ;

[14:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar 9fa4396f6: OUTPUT: «\()␤»

[14:29] <vrurg> m: class Foo { method foo(|c) { say c.perl } }; Foo.new.foo:;

[14:29] <camelia> rakudo-moar 9fa4396f6: OUTPUT: «5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>␤Confused␤at <tmp>:1␤------> 3d foo(|c) { say c.perl } }; Foo.new.foo:7⏏5;␤    expecting any of:␤        colon pair␤»

[14:29] <vrurg> jnthn: ^ perhaps it makes sense to consider ; as a valid symbol to follow the colon? 

[14:33] <vrurg> lizmat: please, don't merge WIP PRs. The last one was almost ok, but I also wanted to fix the --version output with it. 

[14:33] <lizmat> did I miss the WIP ?

[14:34] <lizmat> ARGH, I did, sorry

[14:34] <lizmat> note to self: if it has a yellow label, don't merge!

[14:35] <lizmat> vrurg: again, sorry...

[14:35] <vrurg> lizmat: NP. :)

[14:36] <vrurg> Perhaps makes sense to change the color to something more alerting?

[14:36] <jnthn> vrurg: I don't see why we'd allow `$foo.bar:;`; why write an arg colon if you won't put args?

[14:37] <vrurg> jnthn: only to reduce confusion with working `$foo.bar: ;`

[14:37] <vrurg> Otherwise no reason at all.

[14:38] <vrurg> But then, again, we could as well consider ), }, etc., etc... So, just a whitespace then.

[14:39] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/master: 4 commits pushed by (Vadim Belman)++

[14:39] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/master: 4a1323ed26 | Allow colon syntax on $.method

[14:39] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/master: 6abdf27a35 | Require a space or { after the colon

[14:39] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/master: 0f86e49fa4 | Remove a leftover commit

[14:39] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/master: f608a7a412 | Merge pull request #3317 from vrurg/rakudo_3306

[14:39] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/master: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/compare/9fa4396f6117...f608a7a412cc

[14:40] <jnthn> I'm a bit concerned about the new collision with invocant syntax, though. Hmm.

[14:40] <jnthn> I always forget about the indirect object syntax. I never use it.

[14:41] <vrurg> jnthn: It's the same problem one would get into with `foo self.bar: ;'

[14:42] <vrurg> If Blin would report a problem in the ecosystem with this change I would make it 6.e specific then. Before then it doesn't make sense for extra slow down of the grammar.

[14:43] <jnthn> Well, today I guess if we write `foo $!x: 42;` and then refactor it into `foo $.x: 42` then things keep working, and we'd be breaking that.

[14:46] <vrurg> But really, this is a rather exotic syntax. I don't expect it to be used at all. 

[15:00] * [Coke] yawns.

[15:04] <vrurg> [Coke]: don't spread it around! :D

[15:23] *** cognomin_ joined
[15:24] <AlexDaniel> [Coke]: you have nothing to do? I can give you a task :D

[15:27] *** cognominal left
[15:30] <[Coke]> Ha.

[15:32] *** patrickb joined
[15:32] <patrickb> o/

[15:32] <tellable6> 2019-11-25T01:12:06Z #raku-dev <vrurg> patrickb The idea of raku binary is implemented and will be in the next release. I'd like to ask you to take care of PERL6_HOME and track down all of its use and naming, if possible.

[15:32] <tellable6> hey patrickb, you have a message: https://gist.github.com/35767d4d248d3f98f4953f74f8eda69b

[15:33] <patrickb> https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/8458182981c811b61dfbd4674283ff996d4abf81 wrt that commit. Shouldn't it be --raku-home instead of --rakudo-home, just as the RAKU_HOME env variable? (They were called --perl6-home and PERL6_HOME previously)

[15:34] <lizmat> patrickb: I would argue that PERL6_HOME was actually wrong in the light of multiple implementations ?

[15:34] <patrickb> There was a discussion what to call them when they were initially introduced and the decision was to call them PERL6_HOME instead of RAKUDO_HOME back then.

[15:34] <lizmat> link?

[15:35] <patrickb> lizmat: I try to find it.

[15:37] <vrurg> patrickb: I think it must be RAKUDO_HOME, after all. It is a compiler-specific feature and it points into Rakudo installation. Contrary to RAKU_LIB which could point to a inter-compiler repository.

[15:37] <patrickb> https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6-dev?date=2019-01-07#l266

[15:38] <patrickb> ^-- that was the discussion that I think led to the decision.

[15:42] <patrickb> I think we should decide this before the release, otherwise we'll have more back compat to look out for.

[15:42] <vrurg> patrickb: but currently we have some rakudo-specific stuff in the dir, don't we?

[15:43] <patrickb> The way it is now is: --rakudo-home and RAKU_HOME. One of the two is definitely wrong, as they essentially point to the same folder.

[15:43] <patrickb> vrurg: Yes we do.

[15:43] <vrurg> Then it's RAKUDO_HOME. 

[15:45] <vrurg> As to the backcompat issue: we can support to envvars, np with this. But the directory name would be a hard point to change.

[15:45] <patrickb> That should be changed before the release. I might have time late in the evening.

[15:46] <patrickb> What's the default directory name atm?

[15:46] <vrurg> patrickb: Let's plan it for the next release, not this one.

[15:47] <vrurg> The directory name migration would require some discussion, perhaps. It'd take time to plan.

[15:47] <patrickb> Are we ok with not being back compatible with the wrong names of the upcoming release?

[15:48] <patrickb> The paths are still called perl6. That's ok.

[15:48] <vrurg> BTW, I have already put RAKU_HOME into the sources. :(

[15:49] <AlexDaniel> I mean… if you want to change it, you still can

[15:49] *** cognominal joined
[15:49] <patrickb> That's why I asked about back compat, because we are about to release with a wrong name in there. The folder is still named perl6 though, so no need for immediate action there.

[15:50] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: I was about to ask it. How much time do I have for this? Need to go now.

[15:50] <patrickb> AlexDaniel: I can only do it late in the evening :-/

[15:50] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: or you can do it. It's quick change in src/main.nqp. One line.

[15:51] * vrurg is afk&, likely for long...

[15:51] <patrickb> vrurg: One moement...

[15:51] <AlexDaniel> lizmat really wanted to announce the release in the weekly :)

[15:51] <lizmat> no worries...

[15:51] <patrickb> you asked me to have a look at all the RAKU_HOME usages and make sre they are ok. Now the change seems to go into the release

[15:52] <patrickb> how tested is this?

[15:52] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: patrickb has a point, so let's make sure we get this right

[15:52] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: then, pls, change main.nqp for me? :)

[15:52] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: yeah, personally I'm not in a hurry

[15:52] <vrurg> patrickb: It's just an alias to PERL6_HOME. 

[15:53] <vrurg> patrickb: not a replacement. So, things are not going to break except that RAKUDO_HOME would have a priority over PERL6_HOME.

[15:53] * vrurg is gone. 

[15:53] <patrickb> vrurg: OK. That's a relief.

[15:53] <patrickb> o/

[15:53] *** cognomin_ left
[15:56] <patrickb> That same RAKU_HOME -> RAKUDO_HOME change also needs to go into perl6_debug.nqp.

[15:59] <nine> And that is precicely why we should not allow any features to go in once we branched for a release.

[15:59] <nine> For any reason. At all.

[16:02] <nine> This release is 3 months late already. Once consequence I personally care about: our developers at work waiting for 45 seconds after a change for our app to start up and be ready for testing instead of just 4 (!)

[16:03] <patrickb> nine: That's inline::perl5 killing precomp, right?

[16:03] *** Altai-man_ joined
[16:03] <nine> yes

[16:03] <patrickb> same on a work project here

[16:05] *** sena_kun left
[16:10] <nine> So why don't we just revert the features that went in way too late and fix them without stress and with enough time to properly test them so they can go into the next release - which is just a month away?

[16:16] <[Coke]> I haven't been following the commits, but I thought there was a release branch - were things going in on that release branch?

[16:16] <nine> yes

[16:17] <[Coke]> That seems incorrect to me. I agree with nine, let's get a release out.

[16:18] <[Coke]> ... I shouldn't say "let's" since I'm not doing anything but sitting in my chair here, but..

[16:21] <patrickb> +1 on the revert

[16:21] <patrickb> have to go...

[16:21] *** patrickb left
[16:37] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving: AlexDaniel assigned to jnthn Issue Release manager for Rakudo 2019.12 and onward https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/132

[16:38] <AlexDaniel> nine: I don't know if 2019.12 is exactly one month away given the situation, but thanks for the feedback :)

[16:40] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: maybe this should be mentioned in the weekly (I don't know if enough people follow the problem-solving repo): https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/132

[16:40] <nine> AlexDaniel: my guess is that doing a release is much less work when we actually do it every month. And to make that work, we really need to be strict on feature freeze.

[16:41] <AlexDaniel> nine: I don't think it's currently less work to do it every month, but I think it will be once we get regular Blin runs and perhaps other automation in place

[16:42] <nine> AlexDaniel: certainly not in total, but each individual release should be less work

[16:43] <AlexDaniel> but then, my perspective is of someone who is very tired :)

[16:49] <AlexDaniel> Altai-man_: if you still feel like it, consider leaving a comment :) https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/132

[16:51] <Altai-man_> AlexDaniel, I am thinking about that, yes... Given that my paper is kind of finished... I'll think about it. :)

[16:54] <Altai-man_> AlexDaniel, I also need to read the release guide carefully to understand in details what is required / expected.

[16:56] <AlexDaniel> "Update Rakudo’s leap-second tables:"

[16:56] <AlexDaniel> hah

[16:56] <AlexDaniel> I had not a single leap second

[16:59] <[Coke]> AlexDaniel: thanks for doing it for so long. I did several up to Christmas, and definitely hit a wall at some point.

[16:59] <[Coke]> so I totally get it.

[17:02] <AlexDaniel> I think I've hit it a long time ago, I was just hoping someone will come and propose to take over :)

[17:02] <AlexDaniel> I did more than one release while I was neck deep working on my thesis, I'm actually surprised by that

[17:06] <japhb> .oO( Current thesis depth: NECK )

[17:10] *** japhb left
[17:15] <AlexDaniel> it's a done deal now, I defended in June :)

[17:18] <[Coke]> Congrats?

[17:24] <AlexDaniel> it's old news but thanks :)

[17:29] <AlexDaniel> any special notes for this release?

[17:29] <AlexDaniel> should we mention Raku something?

[17:35] <dogbert17> m: my $b = buf8.new; $b.write-uint64(-1,1,BigEndian); say $b # is this supposed to work?

[17:35] <camelia> rakudo-moar f608a7a41: OUTPUT: «MVMArray: Index out of bounds␤  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1␤␤»

[17:40] <dogbert17> lizmat ^^

[17:45] *** japhb joined
[17:50] <[Coke]> If we haven't had a release since the rename, yes, we should mention it.

[17:51] <[Coke]> I'd include an "in progress" so people don't give us crap if they find a Perl 6 or two still out there.

[18:04] *** sena_kun joined
[18:05] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: can I change RAKU_HOME for the release yet?

[18:05] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: sure?

[18:05] *** Altai-man_ left
[18:06] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: it is rakudo-specific thing. Besides, it's only an alias to PERL6_HOME.

[18:07] <AlexDaniel> c: dbc871c0 say 42

[18:07] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¦dbc871c: «Cannot find this revision (did you mean “0e4b8cc”?)»

[18:10] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: I removed a mention of a commit that doesn't exist: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/ChangeLog-Draft/_compare/99641261b35c4aaf46970fc71cd648f06034e67a...668098ec4bff28ebf602f933c6b820d64a823e5d

[18:10] <AlexDaniel> that's why releasable6 was complaining

[18:10] <AlexDaniel> I don't know where you took that hash from

[18:10] <AlexDaniel> it's not in rakudo, nqp or moarvm…

[18:13] <vrurg> Really... Nothing even close to it. Can't remember for now, of course.

[18:13] <vrurg> Ok, I'm pushing RAKUDO_HOME.

[18:14] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: if you don't mind

[18:15] <AlexDaniel> do it and we'll see where we stand after that

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 24abab8afd | (Vadim Belman)++ | 2 files

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Change RAKU_HOME -> RAKUDO_HOME

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Because it's where Rakudo-specific stuff can be found. So, consider it

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: compiler-related thing.

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Also, lower its priority over `PERL6_HOME` for now, as we're in the

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: early transition stage yet.

[18:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/24abab8afd

[18:17] * vrurg is away again.

[18:25] <lizmat> dogbert17: do you mean that it should check for a negative offset ?

[18:47] <dogbert17> lizmat: it was the example you used here: M#1022

[18:47] <dogbert17> i.e. https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/issues/1022

[18:48] <lizmat> ah, yes, now I remember

[18:48] *** lucasb joined
[19:02] <lizmat> and another Rakudo Weekly News hits the Net: https://rakudoweekly.blog/2019/11/25/2019-47-late-again-or/

[19:24] <AlexDaniel> lizmat++

[19:39] *** MasterDuke joined
[20:03] *** Altai-man_ joined
[20:05] *** sena_kun left
[20:36] *** TreyHarr1 is now known as TreyHarris

[20:59] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: can you take a look at this? https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/blob/master/solutions/language/Path-to-Raku.md#perl6_home

[20:59] <AlexDaniel> and the latest commit

[21:00] <AlexDaniel> I don't want to be picky or anything… but it doesn't really match

[21:00] <lizmat> yeah, looks like an error in the PR  :-(

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: which PR?

[21:01] <lizmat> the path to raku PR ?

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> ah

[21:02] <lizmat> the PR introduced that file

[21:07] *** Kaiepi left
[21:10] *** Kaiepi joined
[21:57] *** Kaiepi left
[21:57] *** Kaiepi joined
[22:00] <AlexDaniel> [Coke]: you often appear as “Will "Coke" Coleda” and “Will Coleda”, it's likely you have two different configs on different machines

[22:01] <AlexDaniel> [Coke]: it could also be your github name vs git config

[22:04] *** sena_kun joined
[22:05] *** Altai-man_ left
[22:05] <[Coke]> Yup.

[22:06] <[Coke]> That's why we have the CREDITS file, to clean up bad users like me.

[22:06] <[Coke]> Is it causing a problem?

[22:08] *** patrickb joined
[22:10] <AlexDaniel> [Coke]: not exactly a problem… I've been correcting it every release manually…

[22:12] <AlexDaniel> but, I mean, the amount of time it took me to write that message is probably more than it took me to correct it for all releases…

[22:19] <[Coke]> Correct it how?

[22:20] <[Coke]> I thought we had things looking at the CREDITS file even back in 2015.

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> I just remove “Will Coleda”, once is enough :)

[22:20] <[Coke]> (also, I haven't committed anything anywhere in a few months, I didn't think.)

[22:20] <[Coke]> ok.

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> [Coke]: even if it does look, how is it going to help? https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/f608a7a412cca7d769618202f76c2bbe0eed5d2c/CREDITS#L858-L860

[22:21] <AlexDaniel> it feels like it just stumbles upon “Will Coleda” and includes it as is

[22:21] <AlexDaniel> or is it supposed to match by email?

[22:24] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 1d1ce7c6c9 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | tools/create-release-announcement.p6

[22:24] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Rakufy release announcement generation

[22:24] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/1d1ce7c6c9

[22:25] <AlexDaniel> weekly: btw we just hit 32k commits in rakudo

[22:25] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted! (weekly)

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 97515a0545 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | 2 files

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Log all changes (+ announcement)

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Deliberately not logged:

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 99e60a22 085ed2f5 8728730e cde40557 ee584d29 0eee9a95 84b3e9fd

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: c4e80486 1fef7838 26696e49 6e24ad57 21655061 6fff0c03 a830b15c

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 82405159 7a0bfd4f 93d3b3f6 b58b3b91 9b214033 7d8cba1c d6985fd6

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: <…commit message has 45 more lines…>

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/97515a0545

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 04ad32390b | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | docs/release_guide.pod

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Actual date, and *not* claiming the next release!

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: See https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/132

[22:30] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/04ad32390b

[22:31] <AlexDaniel> some proofreading can help! https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/97515a05452439187d959cc5ada852857efbf81f/docs/announce/2019.11.md

[22:36] *** squashable6 left
[22:36] *** shareable6 left
[22:37] *** tellable6 joined
[22:37] *** squashable6 joined
[22:37] *** shareable6 joined
[22:50] <tbrowder> yay! looks good at first scan

[22:58] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: 'Added nqp::p6client*' rather belongs to internals section.

[23:10] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: you can just move it :)

[23:10] <vrurg> Didn't want to mess with your work without premission.

[23:11] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: just copy-paste the relevant section into the changelog too

[23:11] <AlexDaniel> otherwise you can do all kinds of changes

[23:12] <AlexDaniel> I'll go to bed soon, lizmat will get back tomorrow about the discrepancy with the path to raku document

[23:12] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: anyway, great work! And g'night!

[23:14] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: d74773b9dc | (Vadim Belman)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | docs/announce/2019.11.md

[23:14] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Move an item to the appropriate section

[23:14] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: 

[23:14] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: "Add `nqp::p6client*` ...` rather belongs to Internals.

[23:14] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/d74773b9dc

[23:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: d4bc6783f9 | (Vadim Belman)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | docs/ChangeLog

[23:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: Move "Add `nqp::p6client*`...` item to the Internals section

[23:16] <Geth> ¦ rakudo/release-2019.11: review: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/d4bc6783f9

