[00:15] *** yewscion joined
[00:20] *** yewscion left
[00:32] *** Guest98 left
[00:40] *** Sevalecan left
[00:41] *** oodani left
[00:43] *** oodani joined
[01:07] *** yewscion joined
[01:12] *** yewscion left
[01:17] *** yewscion joined
[01:21] *** yewscion left
[01:48] *** hulk joined
[01:49] *** kylese left
[02:15] *** hulk left
[02:15] *** kylese joined
[03:45] *** kylese left
[03:47] *** kylese joined
[03:49] *** jmcgnh left
[03:52] *** jmcgnh joined
[04:23] *** topnep left
[04:25] *** topnep joined
[04:27] *** Aedil joined
[06:05] <disbot1> <librasteve> tbrowder: thanks for the tip, my current workflow is go mi6 new Thing followed by some stuff to adjust things the way I want them, is Mi6::Helper a way to automatically do the stuff? I am at a bit of a loss having read your docs as to what the stuff is and where and how i would customise to my preferences‚Ä¶ are there any examples you can share?

[06:29] *** yewscion joined
[06:29] *** topnep left
[06:31] *** topnep joined
[06:33] *** yewscion left
[06:49] *** Guest82 joined
[06:55] *** Aedil left
[07:15] *** Sgeo left
[07:20] *** yewscion joined
[07:20] *** Aedil joined
[07:24] *** yewscion left
[07:37] *** Aedil left
[08:02] *** Xliff_ joined
[08:06] *** Xliff left
[08:07] *** wayland76 joined
[08:11] *** dakkar joined
[08:15] *** lichtkind joined
[09:44] *** Guest82 left
[10:04] *** Guest98 joined
[10:11] *** Guest98 left
[10:12] *** Guest98 joined
[11:06] *** yewscion joined
[11:07] *** Guest98 left
[11:10] *** yewscion left
[11:11] *** Guest98 joined
[11:19] <Guest98> bit of a shame that permutations doesn't have a $of param like combinations; .combinations($of)¬ª.permutations.map(*.Slip).sort isn't very ergonomic

[11:55] *** yewscion joined
[11:55] *** wayland76 left
[11:55] *** wayland76 joined
[11:59] *** yewscion left
[12:06] <lizmat> PRs welcome  :-)

[12:42] <Guest98> I'm still allergic to github's exploitative privacy practices, ignoring licenses to scrape copilot training data, and microsoft in general. I'm specifically using the above code to generate a list of candidates for a nickname to help me choose one so I don't cause this kind of identity confusion any more :)

[12:44] *** Aedil joined
[13:06] <Guest98> personally I'm a bit torn between sourcehut and codeberg. really liked several things about sourcehut including that you can receive contributions from people who don't even have to register an account, but leaning towards codeberg mainly because it will remain free for the foreseeable future, unlike sourcehut (even though they only plan to charge

[13:06] <Guest98> very modest amounts)

[13:06] <Guest98> if I were working on something larger than myself and trying to attract contributors, it'd be codeberg for sure just because it's more like github so won't scare people off as much

[13:13] *** yewscion joined
[13:13] *** stanrifkin joined
[13:18] *** yewscion left
[13:47] *** samebchase joined
[13:54] <disbot1> <antononcube> If permutations takes takes an of argument, then the name would be misleading.

[14:12] <Guest98> fair, perhaps it would be a different method. what name would you propose? all I know is that permuations brings my machine to its knees for pretty small inputs, so its usefulness is limited without having any way to narrow the problem space. or is there maybe just a formally less incorrect way to name the parameter besides of? like partial or only

[14:12] <Guest98> or subset or...idk...

[14:13] *** yewscion joined
[14:18] <disbot1> <antononcube> I think the standard or expected name would bevariations. I remember seeing "partial permutation" somewhere, but I am not sure does it make sense and/or is "legal."

[14:21] <disbot1> <antononcube> And, yes, I have similar problems withinteger-partitions of "Math::NumberTheory". (Trying to fix that by having a special algorithm for partitions up to k terms.)

[14:22] *** Guest98 left
[14:22] *** Guest98 joined
[14:26] <[Coke]> (contributions from non-account holders) - I wonder if they have higher incidents of spam. (and if not, is it because of size of platform adoption or nicer community or...)

[14:27] <Guest98> I'd be fine with variations. there's a wikipedia article for partial permutations, but I'm too tired to grok it right now, not having any formal background in combinatorics or set theory. kinda looks like something related but not quite the same, if I'm reading it right

[14:29] <Guest98> [Coke] it just requires e-mail, like the linux kernel. wonder how they handle the spam. though I'm not sure that free github accounts are really much of a barrier to spam either

[14:35] *** stanrifkin left
[14:50] *** apac joined
[14:55] *** apac left
[15:03] *** Ekho left
[15:03] *** apac joined
[15:10] *** Ekho joined
[15:11] *** avuserow left
[15:11] *** ACfromTX left
[15:12] *** SmokeMachine left
[15:13] *** SmokeMachine joined
[15:13] *** avuserow joined
[15:13] *** swaggboi left
[15:14] *** clarkema left
[15:14] *** swaggboi joined
[15:15] *** lucs left
[15:15] *** jdv left
[15:16] *** leont left
[15:17] *** clarkema joined
[15:18] *** leont joined
[15:19] *** swaggboi left
[15:19] *** rjbs left
[15:21] *** rjbs joined
[15:21] *** swaggboi joined
[15:21] *** lucs joined
[15:22] *** ACfromTX joined
[15:22] *** simcop2387 left
[15:22] *** simcop2387 joined
[15:25] *** apac left
[15:26] *** jdv joined
[15:52] <Xliff_> Guest98: Hmmm... codeberg sounds like a great place to have an additional remote for my repos.

[15:52] <tellable6> hey Xliff_, you have a message: https://gist.github.com/879ba384d58927443a6a4e784bd7ac00

[16:35] *** dakkar left
[16:38] <Guest98> Xliff_ good point. not like it has to be just one centralized place, that was a lot of the point of git in the first place. if/how you worry about coordinating all the non-git stuff like issues, PRs, ci/cd, wiki, etc is nothing I know about though

[16:39] <Guest98> I heard codeberg's ci/cd is not great (don't know details), but supposedly you can set your codeberg repo up to use sourcehut's ci/cd. maybe same for github, dunno. being a lone wolf much of the time, I just type "make test" myself on my own darn machine :)

[16:50] *** hvxgr joined
[16:59] *** topnep left
[17:01] *** topnep joined
[17:29] <tbrowder> linrasteve: it should be easy to use the default and then adjust.  easier than mi6 alone. i dont

[17:31] <tbrowder> don‚Äôt have a good example of a freshly made on because the start is on your own host with or without a hidden file with a name and a description.

[17:35] <tbrowder> if you could file an issue with what you would like to see or change i‚Äôll see what i can do. imho, the best thing it does is set up 3os workflows and expects README source to be in pod6 in a /docs subdirectory

[17:36] <disbot1> <antononcube> @librasteve üëÜ

[17:37] <tbrowder> it MAY work with other than github but i haven‚Äôt tried any other

[18:01] *** Guest71 joined
[18:03] *** Guest71 left
[18:03] *** Guest1 joined
[18:05] *** Guest98 left
[18:05] *** Aedil left
[18:09] *** Aedil joined
[18:21] *** abraxxa-home joined
[18:34] <tbrowder> duh, ‚Äúlinrasteve‚Äù thnx antononcube!

[18:35] *** abraxxa-home left
[18:56] <disbot1> <librasteve> tbrowder: my beef is that the docs do not describe what the module does ‚Ä¶ you mention 3x test actions but I cannot see that or anything else in the docs and i cannot see where customization is done

[18:57] <disbot1> <librasteve> you may be open to a PR but I don‚Äôt have a clue what I will get ‚Ä¶ so no idea where to start with changes

[18:58] <disbot1> <librasteve> sorry to be so forthright ‚Ä¶ but I trust that it will help me and i think i want the help :-)

[18:58] *** lichtkind left
[19:07] <tbrowder> not a PR, in issue saying what you would like it to do for you

[19:08] <tbrowder> *an issue, feature requests‚Ä¶

[19:31] *** refactus joined
[19:33] *** lichtkind joined
[19:33] *** refactus left
[19:33] *** refactus joined
[19:36] *** leah2 left
[19:36] *** refactus left
[19:37] *** Guest1 left
[19:37] *** Guest1 joined
[19:37] *** Guest1 is now known as refactus

[19:48] *** leah2 joined
[19:51] *** apac joined
[20:05] *** refactus left
[20:06] *** librasteve_ joined
[20:17] *** refactus joined
[20:17] *** refactus left
[20:17] *** refactus joined
[20:34] *** stanrifkin joined
[20:45] <disbot1> <librasteve> https://github.com/tbrowder/Mi6-Helper/issues/19

[21:07] *** kst``` joined
[21:07] *** kst`` left
[21:29] *** apac left
[21:47] *** tejr_ joined
[21:51] *** stanrifkin left
[21:51] *** tejr left
[21:51] *** tejr_ is now known as tejr

[22:00] *** Aedil left
[22:06] *** yewscion left
[23:00] <tbrowder> librasteve: excellent, i was so anxious last pub so I could use it, i did crappy job of doc redo (it was even worse)

[23:00] *** Sgeo joined
[23:01] <tbrowder> i will try to get to it soon, thank you very much!

[23:16] *** wayland76 left
[23:37] *** lichtkind left
