[00:01] *** sena_kun left
[00:03] *** sena_kun joined
[00:05] *** sena_kun left
[00:14] <timo> i might already be above 10k unread notifications on github, i have zero chance of noticing anything

[00:35] *** Manifest0 left
[00:42] <guifa> timo: o.O

[00:46] <tonyo> yea, they're next to impossible to filter for relevance

[00:55] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> I guess, they should be clustered first.

[01:02] <timo> well, they are. it's not enough, i just end up with very few clusters of very many notifications that i can in theory probably all just dismiss immediately, but then it's hundreds of rather small clusters that are an amount of work each to dismiss

[01:13] *** guifa left
[01:41] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> Are those automatically generated messages or human-made / sent/

[01:50] <tonyo> kind of a combination, work has a couple of hundred repos.  i do too (not all of them are public)

[01:51] <tonyo> if i could only get them when mentioned or when i'm the code owner rather than every ci/cd/issue comment on the repo/etc that'd be nice.  i'm sure there's a way to do that at this point but i haven't looked in years.  i also don't read my email for a similar reason

[02:30] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> I am looking for motivation to implement (another) recommender system.

[02:31] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> That probably, has to be anyway if I want LLM-RAG to be more seriously supported by Raku.

[02:40] *** hulk joined
[02:40] *** kylese left
[03:06] *** kjp left
[03:08] *** kjp joined
[03:10] *** hulk left
[03:10] *** Sgeo left
[03:10] *** hvxgr left
[03:10] *** gfldex left
[03:10] *** bloatable6 left
[03:10] *** coverable6 left
[03:10] *** Ekho left
[03:15] *** hulk joined
[03:15] *** Sgeo joined
[03:15] *** hvxgr joined
[03:15] *** gfldex joined
[03:15] *** bloatable6 joined
[03:15] *** coverable6 joined
[03:15] *** Ekho joined
[03:15] *** hulk left
[03:15] *** kylese joined
[04:35] *** Aedil joined
[04:35] *** Aedil left
[04:38] <sjn> El_Che: are you going to FOSDEM?

[04:41] *** Aedil joined
[06:29] *** silug left
[06:30] *** silug joined
[08:25] *** Sgeo left
[08:53] *** dakkar joined
[10:09] *** sena_kun joined
[11:59] <tbrowder> [Coke]: not

[11:59] <tbrowder> *thanks, i was thinking about it 'cause of  lizmat and 'stem'

[12:04] *** guifa joined
[12:13] <tbrowder> hm, File::Temp, which i use a fair amount, has an issue opened in 2020. rpt is one who commented. some raku and os expert i bet could close that (hint).

[12:14] <tbrowder> the issue doesn't bother me because i don't do stuff the issue addresses.

[12:15] <lizmat> are you talking about the raku community modules version ?

[12:24] *** guifa left
[12:45] *** guifa joined
[12:59] *** sorenson left
[13:01] *** sorenson joined
[13:23] <El_Che> sjn: I don't know yet. Are you?

[13:27] <lizmat> I think sjn said he's going yesterday :-)

[13:35] <El_Che> missed it :)

[13:35] <El_Che> lizmat: are you?

[13:36] <lizmat> no

[13:36] <lizmat> weekly: https://dev.to/lizmat/finding-the-coverables-3l13

[13:36] <notable6> lizmat, Noted! (weekly)

[15:24] <sjn> El_Che: yeah, I'll be there helping a little with the booth, and running between policy and sbom devrooms, talking about metadata, security and the CRA :-o

[15:26] <sjn> El_Che: We (Brian, Stuart and I) have been looking for someone local to help with logistics. I know you always are busy, but do you by chance have time this year? :-)

[16:02] <El_Che> I am at the moment changing teams and looking what to do with my on the side academic endeavours (writing a presentation as we speak for a meeting with some profs from abroad) 

[16:03] <El_Che> so, not very likely, but I'll ping you if time opens up

[17:35] <sjn> El_Che: nah, we'd need a committment early; we're thinking about renting a screen (large, with floor stand), and need someone to pick up/store/return. This isn't something we can do "at the last minute", and without knowing if someone can be there with a car, we can't even proceed with budgeting or reservations, sadly :-(

[17:36] <sjn> so no worries; if you don't know you can now, then you can't at all.

[17:36] <sjn> El_Che: do you know of someone else local that might be able to help?

[17:37] <sjn> I've pinged Dirk and ecocode, but that hasn't lead anywhere (no commitment/no reply)

[17:38] *** dakkar left
[18:04] <El_Che> sjn: have you tried serge and emmanuel (both are from Brussels)

[18:31] <[Coke]> there's no way to declare modules required for author tests, correct? (test-depends are for items that would be needed for just t/ tests)

[18:36] <sjn> El_Che: no, I don't have their info

[18:50] *** nicole left
[18:50] *** nicole joined
[18:59] *** timo left
[19:04] *** timo joined
[19:06] <lizmat> [Coke]: that's my understanding

[19:06] <lizmat> perhaps we need an "author-test-depends" tag in META6.json

[19:13] <lucs> [Coke]: What do you mean by "author tests"?

[19:13] <lizmat> tests run in the xt dir

[19:14] <lucs> Oh. Um, I never used that, don't really know about it.

[19:15] <[Coke]> tests that you don't want the user to run, like "how is my code coverage" - you'd run these before pushing a release, but no need for a user to run them to test functionality

[19:15] <lucs> Ah, I see.

[19:20] *** swaggboi left
[19:38] *** Aedil left
[19:43] <[Coke]> or, like for raku/docs - things that break CI should be in t/, things that are less strict can go in xt/

[19:45] <tbrowder> lizmat: yes, the comm version

[19:47] <tbrowder> *community version

[19:48] <tbrowder> [Coke]: mi6 may let you get away with not dec

[19:48] <tbrowder> *declaring a module used only in xt

[19:50] <lizmat> it does, and that's the whole point

[19:53] <tbrowder> i guess i missed the point.

[19:54] *** swaggboi joined
[19:55] <lizmat> test in xt could need any number of modules, but those wouldn't need to be installed for users of that module

[20:21] <tbrowder> yes, but if they're not delared in META6.json, which complains: zef, raku, or mi6?

[20:23] <ugexe> there are going to be some dependencies that just dont belong in a META6.json. For instance if someone has an examples/ folder that demonstrates using the module but it also has a bunch of dependencies, should those be listed somewhere? those dependencies aren't really tied to the distribution per-se, they are tied to a specific use of the code

[20:24] <tbrowder> [Coke]:  what is yr specific use case?

[20:26] <tbrowder> for odd stuff i sometimes use a Makefile, or a special test dir like "xt-extra"...

[20:26] <ugexe> I think if I wanted to immediately have a way of having my xt/ dependencies listed somewhere I'd probably put them into a text file under xt/ with instructions to do something like `echo xt/dependencies.txt | zef install -`

[20:29] <tbrowder> hm, i thought we wanted to avoid having to formally declare dependencies?

[20:30] <lizmat> I think ugexe meant only the top level ones

[20:49] *** orangebot_ joined
[20:52] *** orangebot left
[21:05] <tbrowder> ok

[21:17] *** orangebot_ left
[21:58] <tbrowder> m: use Test; my $f = True; ok $f

[21:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar a66b2e161: OUTPUT: «ok 1 - ␤»

[22:01] <tbrowder> m: use Test; sub f(--> Bool) { False}; ok f

[22:01] <camelia> rakudo-moar a66b2e161: OUTPUT: «not ok 1 - ␤# Failed test at <tmp> line 1␤»

[22:49] *** Sgeo joined
[23:01] <patrickb> ugexe: The fruit of my recent ecosystem generation wishes: https://sr.ht/~patrickb/EcosystemMakerFaker/ (should show up on raku.land momentarily)

[23:01] <patrickb> It's pretty epic zef enables one to do such a thing. Thank you!

[23:21] <discord-raku-bot> <antononcube> @patrickb Fake Zef news sounds good. Maybe, fake RakodoWeekly is next.

[23:31] *** silug left
[23:31] *** silug joined
[23:41] *** sena_kun left
