[00:00] *** wknight8111 joined
[00:06] *** xinming joined
[00:29] *** ruoso joined
[00:35] *** wayland76 left
[00:38] *** bacek_ joined
[00:43] *** wollmers left
[00:50] *** nbrown joined
[01:03] *** jnthn left
[01:03] *** zev left
[01:03] *** buu left
[01:03] *** Maddingue left
[01:03] *** IRSeekBot left
[01:04] *** jnthn joined
[01:04] *** zev joined
[01:04] *** IRSeekBot joined
[01:04] *** Maddingue joined
[01:04] *** buu joined
[01:04] *** irc.freenode.net sets mode: +o jnthn

[01:04] *** sri_kraih joined
[01:08] *** ispy_ joined
[01:10] *** cspencer joined
[01:18] *** jhorwitz left
[01:18] *** sri_kraih_ left
[01:20] <skids> Should zip return lvalues?  How do you prototype that -- is rw would apply to the returned List, not the elements, correct?

[01:21] <skids> List of Capture of Object is rw?

[01:22] <skids> Or do we not have to specify that...

[01:22] *** s1n joined
[01:24] *** DemoFreak left
[01:30] *** cspencer left
[01:31] *** cspencer joined
[01:38] *** cspencer left
[02:13] *** wknight8111 left
[02:19] *** ruoso left
[02:20] *** ruoso joined
[02:25] *** frew|wor1 joined
[02:42] *** cdarroch left
[02:51] *** meppl joined
[02:57] *** azawawi joined
[02:58] *** azawawi left
[02:58] *** azawawi joined
[02:59] <azawawi> good morning

[03:10] *** Limbic_Region left
[03:14] *** sri_kraih left
[03:15] *** sri_kraih joined
[03:18] *** meppuru joined
[03:33] *** meppl left
[03:35] *** davidad joined
[03:40] *** drbean_ joined
[03:40] *** alanhaggai joined
[03:42] *** ispy_ left
[03:48] *** alanhaggai left
[03:48] *** alanhaggai joined
[03:52] *** amoc joined
[03:53] *** meppuru is now known as meppl

[03:59] <azawawi> moritz_: ping

[04:00] <azawawi> TimToady: ping

[04:02] <azawawi> TimToady: is it okay to prefix each STD error/warning with an "error" or "warning" so that we can filter them?

[04:02] <azawawi> @tell TimToady is it okay to prefix each STD error/warning with an "error" or "warning" so that we can filter them?

[04:02] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[04:07] *** alanhaggai left
[04:09] <skids> rakudo: sub f ($g is rw) is rw { my $b; $b := $g; return $b; }; my $d = "OH NOES"; my $c := f($d); $c = "OH HAI"; $d.say

[04:09] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«OH HAI␤»

[04:09] <skids> rakudo: sub f ($g is rw)  { my $b; $b := $g; return $b; }; my $d = "OH NOES"; my $c := f($d); $c = "OH HAI"; $d.say

[04:09] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«OH HAI␤»

[04:09] <skids> rakudo: sub f ($g) is rw  { my $b; $b := $g; return $b; }; my $d = "OH NOES"; my $c := f($d); $c = "OH HAI"; $d.say

[04:10] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«Cannot assign to readonly variable.␤current instr.: 'die' pc 17536 (src/builtins/control.pir:225)␤»

[04:14] <skids> rakudo: sub f (@g is rw) { my $b; $b := @g[0]; return $b; }; my @d = <OH NOES>; my $c := f(@d); $c = "OH HAI"; @d.say

[04:14] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«OH HAINOES␤»

[04:14] <skids> rakudo: sub f (@g is rw) { my @b; @b[] := @g[]; return @b; }; my @d = <OH NOES>; my @c := f(@d); @c[0] = "OH HAI"; @d.say

[04:14] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«rtype not set␤current instr.: 'parrot;PCT;HLLCompiler;panic' pc 146 (src/PCT/HLLCompiler.pir:104)␤»

[04:15] * skids ponders

[04:21] <skids> rakudo: my @a = <a b c>; my @b; @b[0] := @a[0]; @b[0] = 1; @a.say

[04:21] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«rtype not set␤current instr.: 'parrot;PCT;HLLCompiler;panic' pc 146 (src/PCT/HLLCompiler.pir:104)␤»

[04:22] <skids> hah.  Had nothing to do with the lvalue sub I was trying to make :-)

[04:23] <skids> rakudo you minx

[04:23] *** rewt left
[04:24] *** rewt joined
[04:25] <skids> rakudo: my $a = 1; my @b; @b[0] := $a; @b[0] = 2; $a.say

[04:25] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«rtype not set␤current instr.: 'parrot;PCT;HLLCompiler;panic' pc 146 (src/PCT/HLLCompiler.pir:104)␤»

[04:28] <skids> found RT#61412

[04:31] *** sri_kraih left
[04:52] *** LylePerl left
[04:54] *** wormphlegm joined
[04:56] *** skids left
[05:01] *** iblechbot joined
[05:02] *** justatheory left
[05:02] *** kate21de joined
[05:07] <pugs_svn> r26387 | azawawi++ | [S:H:P6] Released 0.043 to CPAN which includes now line number info in tokens()

[05:08] *** nbrown left
[05:08] *** alester joined
[05:13] *** sitaram joined
[05:16] <pugs_svn> r26388 | szabgab++ | Smart::Links separate the code to process_perl5_file

[05:21] <pugs_svn> r26389 | azawawi++ | [S:H:P6] Updated pod for tokens

[05:33] *** alester left
[05:36] *** davidad left
[05:37] *** davidad joined
[05:41] *** aff joined
[05:44] *** sitaram left
[05:45] *** sitaram joined
[05:48] *** irkoch_ joined
[05:48] *** iblechbot left
[05:55] *** kate21de left
[06:01] *** irkoch_ left
[06:07] <pugs_svn> r26390 | szabgab++ | Smart::Link move the Pod::Simple::HTML usage to more prominent place, reduce the usage of syn

[06:09] *** irkoch left
[06:09] *** jedai joined
[06:13] *** davidad left
[06:15] <azawawi> moritz_: ping

[06:15] *** sri_kraih joined
[06:16] <pugs_svn> r26391 | szabgab++ | Smart::Links use write_file everywhere

[06:17] *** jedai left
[06:18] *** wormphlegm left
[06:25] *** sitaram left
[06:27] <moritz_> good morning

[06:32] *** davidad joined
[06:32] *** asakra joined
[06:41] *** wollmers joined
[06:44] <pugs_svn> r26392 | moritz++ | [t/spec] test for RT #64090, type Regex on variables

[06:53] *** azawawi left
[06:57] <moritz_> rakudo: given 'foo' { if /bar/ { say "FAIL" } }

[06:57] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«Null PMC access in isa_pmc()␤current instr.: 'parrot;PGE;Match;new' pc 33 (compilers/pge/PGE/Match.pir:64)␤»

[07:00] <pugs_svn> r26393 | moritz++ | [t/spec] test for RT #64330

[07:00] *** davidad left
[07:02] <pugs_svn> r26394 | moritz++ | [t/spec] one more test for RT #64330

[07:02] *** davidad joined
[07:03] <pugs_svn> r26395 | moritz++ | [t/spec] fix RT #64330 tests - where did i have my mind?

[07:03] *** aff left
[07:18] *** ejs joined
[07:19] *** davidad left
[07:20] *** davidad joined
[07:27] *** DemoFreak joined
[07:29] *** sri_kraih left
[07:48] *** ejs1 joined
[07:49] *** clkao_ is now known as clkao

[07:56] *** ejs left
[07:57] *** jferrero joined
[08:03] *** aff joined
[08:06] <aff> How should I name a Perl 6 port of an existing CPAN module? 

[08:06] <moritz_> just like the Perl 5 module

[08:07] <moritz_> unless you can think of a better name

[08:07] <aff> I just wondered if there were any conventions to follow.

[08:07] <moritz_> since we can't upload Perl 6 modules to CPAN in any meaningful way right now, there's no need for a separate name

[08:08] <aff> Ok

[08:08] *** ejs2 joined
[08:08] <aff> So basically I can just upload to github and leave it there, is that "the right thing" to do?

[08:08] *** abra left
[08:09] *** abra joined
[08:10] <moritz_> yes

[08:11] <moritz_> and tell masak about it, so he can tell proto how to download and install it

[08:11] <aff> moritz Ok Thanks

[08:12] <aff> It's just a port of Statistics::Lite on CPAN, but one has to start somewhere..

[08:12] <moritz_> aff: see http://github.com/masak/proto/blob/42e393599bcad5747ce8f918a4877f0bd6df3d41/PIONEER for what you need to make your package proto-installable (not very much)

[08:12] *** azawawi joined
[08:13] <azawawi> moritz_: hi

[08:13] <moritz_> hi azawawi 

[08:14] <azawawi> mortiz_: how r u you?

[08:15] <moritz_> fine, and a bit busy

[08:17] <azawawi> i have been developing an outline tree view for Padre Perl6 plugin and i need your help in classifying stuff in perl6 

[08:18] <moritz_> sure

[08:19] <azawawi> for perl5, we have methods, pragmata (use strict) and modules (use ....) which are under package-s

[08:19] *** ejs1 left
[08:20] <azawawi> it is kind of of clicking on the item to get you there on the editor...

[08:20] <moritz_> really methods? or subs?

[08:20] * azawawi uploads a tree view picture... brb

[08:22] *** AzureStone_ joined
[08:22] *** rewt left
[08:22] *** rewt joined
[08:25] *** masak joined
[08:27] <masak> oh hai, givencamels.

[08:28] <moritz_> good ::Temporal masak :-)

[08:29] <masak> :)

[08:29] <masak> I dropped out suddenly yesterday evening, due to the unreliable nature of the wifi connection I'm piggybacking on.

[08:31] <masak> I'll backlog and see if you reached some sort of conclusion over the '-> Object @x' thing.

[08:32] <aff> Hi masak: May I ask a makefile question?

[08:32] <masak> aff: absolutely.

[08:32] <masak> this sounds like a wtop.

[08:32] <aff> I downloaded rakudo with parrot the other day.

[08:32] <aff> The symlink to Test.pm isn't matching the sources.

[08:33] <aff> I can't see the languages/rakudo/ directory

[08:33] <masak> ah.

[08:33] <masak> which symlink would that be?

[08:33] <masak> the one from November?

[08:33] <aff> yes

[08:33] <masak> aff: yes, that's bad. and wrong.

[08:33] <aff> I have multiple others, e.g. ./parrot/lib/Parrot/Test.pm

[08:34] <aff> Which one should I use?

[08:34] <masak> .../rakudo/Test.pm

[08:34] <aff> Ok thanks

[08:34] <masak> the symlinking business isn't optimal.

[08:35] <masak> I'd be very happy if the fallout from the module discussions were that that workaround went away.

[08:35] <aff> It died on me since it created a symlink to a non-existing file, thus the !-e test fails.

[08:36] <aff> Not a big deal of course.

[08:37] <masak> well, I'd like for it to work on all Rakudo setups.

[08:37] <masak> so, thanks for the heads-up.

[08:37] <masak> aff++

[08:37] <aff> masak: No problem. BTW: Thanks for coming to NPW, I enjoyed your talk.

[08:38] <masak> glad to hear it.

[08:38] <masak> it definitely gave me a taste for more.

[08:38] <masak> I've now submitted two talks to YAPC::EU. :)

[08:39] <aff> Traveling the world eh?

[08:39] <masak> it's only Portugal. but yes. :)

[08:42] <pugs_svn> r26396 | wollmers++ | change chr() to one positional parameter

[08:42] <pugs_svn> r26396 | wollmers++ | remove rakudo skip

[08:42] *** bacek_ left
[08:42] <azawawi> moritz_: http://feather.perl6.nl/~azawawi/Padre-Plugin-Perl6.png

[08:43] <azawawi> moritz_: sorry for keeping you waiting :)

[08:43] <azawawi> hi masak

[08:43] <masak> azawawi: oh hai

[08:44] <moritz_> azawawi: please distinguish between subs and methods

[08:45] <azawawi> moritz_: so separate methods and subs. check.

[08:45] <masak> could do them in similar colors, but still distinct.

[08:46] <masak> like blue and purple, or something.

[08:47] <azawawi> masak: sure

[08:47] <azawawi> my question here is what categories are needed to be under class/package/role/...etc

[08:48] <azawawi> catogories that are useful ofcourse to the programmer in perl 6

[08:48] <moritz_> azawawi: STD.pm contains a complete list

[08:48] <masak> I wouldn't mind seeing those in the same colour.

[08:48] *** davidad left
[08:49] <azawawi> moritz_: *_declarator then

[08:49] <moritz_> grep for package_declarator, yes

[08:50] * azawawi takes a look at STD.pm

[08:50] <pugs_svn> r26397 | wollmers++ | remove rakudo skip

[08:53] *** payload joined
[08:54] <azawawi> moritz_: and to find modules, i need to grep for 'require' and 'use'. anything else?

[08:54] <moritz_> azawawi: not that I'm aware of

[08:54] *** zamolxes left
[08:55] <azawawi> moritz_: cool

[08:58] *** fridim_ joined
[08:58] <azawawi> masak: where can i find the latest november source code? i want to test it against my outline view :)

[08:58] <moritz_> github/viklund/november

[08:59] <masak> aye, http://github.com/viklund/november/

[08:59] <azawawi> thx

[09:01] <azawawi> moritz_: one more thing on my todo list, differentiating between STD.pm errors and warnings. We need a prefix.

[09:02] <aff> masak: Whenever you have a minute to spare, please check if http://github.com/aff/statistics-lite/tree/master builds with proto.

[09:02] <masak> aff: sure thing.

[09:08] *** DemoFreak left
[09:08] *** DemoFreak joined
[09:16] *** agentzh left
[09:19] *** DemoFreak left
[09:20] *** DemoFreak joined
[09:23] *** agentzh joined
[09:23] *** mjk joined
[09:24] *** payload left
[09:28] *** kane_ joined
[09:44] *** kane__ left
[09:51] *** riffraff joined
[09:51] <masak> moritz_: great blog post http://perlgeek.de/blog-en/perl-6/writing-perl6-now.html -- '[doc://List::MoreUtils]::natatime' looks like leakage; is it?

[09:53] <literal> also [mod://Moose] and [mod://MooseX::Role::Parameterized]

[09:54] <masak> lunch &

[09:54] *** azawawi left
[09:59] *** ejs2 left
[10:02] *** azawawi joined
[10:02] *** ejs2 joined
[10:03] *** bacek joined
[10:05] *** mjk left
[10:05] * frettled ehvilly edited the Wikipedia entry for ST to mention Perl 6 and reference the blog entry.

[10:07] <azawawi> moritz_: cool blog post. very nice.

[10:07] <azawawi> moritz_: i got confused however on the '$bailout.pay-tax();' 

[10:08] <azawawi> moritz_: kinda confusing for the dash to be in the method name

[10:09] <aff> moritz++

[10:10] *** literal_ joined
[10:13] *** wayland76 joined
[10:19] *** amoc left
[10:27] *** jrockway joined
[10:30] *** bacek_ joined
[10:33] *** bacek left
[10:40] *** ejs1 joined
[10:40] *** ruoso left
[10:41] <moritz_> masak: yes, I'll fix that

[10:45] *** ejs2 left
[10:45] <moritz_> masak: I originally wrote it for perlmonks, but then decided that my blog is the better place

[10:45] <masak> ah.

[10:45] <masak> aye, probably.

[10:46] <masak> you can always link to it from perlmonks.

[10:49] *** DemoFreak left
[10:50] *** wayland76 left
[10:50] *** alanhaggai joined
[10:51] *** zamolxes joined
[10:53] *** wayland76 joined
[10:55] <moritz_> ok, links fixed

[10:57] *** ejs joined
[10:57] *** ejs1 left
[10:57] *** wayland_ joined
[10:58] <masak> from http://irclog.perlgeek.de/perl6/2009-04-23#i_1089233 I conclude that the failing line of code in November is due to a bug in November, not in Rakudo. at least as things stand right now.

[10:58] <masak> jnthn: ping

[10:59] <jnthn> masak: oh hai

[10:59] <masak> jnthn: I'll try and summarize, and you can just answer true or false... I mean 1 or 0.

[10:59] <jnthn> maybe

[10:59] <masak> :)

[10:59] <jnthn> er, 0.5?

[10:59] <jnthn> ;-)

[11:00] *** wayland76 left
[11:00] <masak> (0.5 is the answer to Epimenides paradox)

[11:00] *** wayland_ is now known as wayland76

[11:00] <azawawi> moritz_, masak: http://feather.perl6.nl/~azawawi/Padre-Plugin-Perl6-2.png

[11:00] <masak> jnthn: one cannot expect 'for @x -> Object $x' to work, if @x is just an untyped Array, and not Array[Object].

[11:01] <masak> azawawi: very, very cool.

[11:01] <jnthn> masak: false

[11:02] <azawawi> masak: thx

[11:02] <masak> jnthn: sounds promising.

[11:02] <jnthn> masak: the -> Object $x { ... } is just a signature.

[11:02] <masak> right.

[11:02] <moritz_> azawawi: very nice. However I'd put regex, token and rule into the same category, because you use them the same way

[11:02] <jnthn> erm, well, the Object $x within there is anyway.

[11:02] <masak> rakudo: my @x = 1,2,3; for @x -> Object $x {}

[11:02] <azawawi> moritz_: sure

[11:02] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305:  ( no output )

[11:02] <moritz_> azawawi: a token { ... } is just a regex { :ratchet ... }

[11:02] <masak> oh! that didn't work yesterday...

[11:03] <masak> rakudo: for 1,2,3 -> Object $x {}

[11:03] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305:  ( no output )

[11:03] <moritz_> masak: really? I thought it only failed with a @ sigil?

[11:03] <masak> moritz_: oh, right.

[11:03] <masak> rakudo: for [1],[2],[3] -> Object @x {}

[11:03] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«Non-Positional argument or Positional of wrong element type for @x in call to _block31␤current instr.: 'die' pc 17536 (src/builtins/control.pir:225)␤»

[11:03] <masak> yah, that's the one.

[11:03] <masak> jnthn: I'll retroactively change my question to this one.

[11:04] <jnthn> masak: Ah, I think that's related to the bug I think moritz reported yesterday.

[11:04] <masak> quite possibly.

[11:04] <jnthn> rakudo: say [1] ~~ Positional[Object]

[11:04] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«0␤»

[11:04] <masak> I dropped off the net, so I couldn't report.

[11:04] <jnthn> ^^ That's incorrect.

[11:04] <masak> oh, good.

[11:04] <jnthn> So once that is fixed, your other example shoudl work.

[11:04] * masak wishes he'd have caught that before the release

[11:05] <jnthn> I'm 90% certain they boil down to the same thing

[11:05] <masak> I should run the November tests more often.

[11:05] <moritz_> masak: you should automate the test run

[11:05] <masak> moritz_: great idea.

[11:06] <masak> as it is now, we're stuck with either working around this in Bratislava, or giving up our target-monthlies regime.

[11:10] <wayland76> ημμ (hmm :) )

[11:11] <azawawi> moritz_: Based on your input here is the updated Padre Perl 6 plugin screenshot. http://feather.perl6.nl/~azawawi/Padre-Plugin-Perl6-3.png

[11:11] <moritz_> azawawi: nice

[11:12] <masak> azawawi++

[11:12] *** iListenU joined
[11:12] *** frairfox joined
[11:12] *** bacek_ left
[11:13] <jnthn> masak: Consider that Object @x is exactly the same (once Rakudo is corrected) as @x

[11:13] <iListenU> Where can be problem? here's: http://parduoduv.puslapiai.lt/ (in top)? What i need to do to solve it??

[11:13] <jnthn> Since Object is the default type of @x

[11:13] *** iListenU left
[11:14] <masak> jnthn: right.

[11:14] <masak> could have been Any.

[11:14] <azawawi> moritz_: the line number info in STD.pm is working as expected. Now clicking on each leaf in the tree highlights the corresponding line in the editor.

[11:14] <jnthn> So writing -> Object @x { } is redundant.

[11:14] <masak> jnthn: we are using it in November in one place to avoid autothreading.

[11:14] <jnthn> -> @x { } means the same

[11:14] <jnthn> Ah, OK.

[11:14] <masak> jnthn: but ISTR that Object became the new default anyway, so you're right.

[11:14] <jnthn> Yes.

[11:15] <masak> there's a comment to that effect by ihrd in that code.

[11:15] <moritz_> Object as default isn't implemented

[11:15] <moritz_> afaict

[11:15] <moritz_> or is it?

[11:15] <masak> rakudo: for [1], [2|3], [4] -> @a { say @a.perl }

[11:15] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«[1]␤Cannot reduce() empty list␤[]␤[4]␤»

[11:16] <masak> that's an odd error.

[11:16] <moritz_> rakudo: -> $x { say $x.WHAT }.(1|2)

[11:16] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«Int␤Int␤No exception handler and no message␤current instr.: 'return' pc 17196 (src/builtins/control.pir:39)␤»

[11:16] <masak> rakudo: for [1], [2|3], [4] -> @a { say @a.elems }

[11:16] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«1␤1␤1␤»

[11:16] <masak> seems it doesn't autothread, so I guess I can remove it.

[11:16] <moritz_> but you see, scalars are still Any typed

[11:17] <masak> right.

[11:17] <moritz_> rakudo: for [1], [2]|[3], [4] -> @a { say @a.elems }

[11:17] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«1␤Non-Positional argument or Positional of wrong element type for @a in call to _block34␤current instr.: 'die' pc 17536 (src/builtins/control.pir:225)␤»

[11:18] <moritz_> bug?

[11:18] <moritz_> don't know about junctions and arrays...

[11:19] * masak submits, just in case

[11:21] <masak> aff: statistics-lite downloads just fine, but doesn't build on my box. I think there are still some glitches in proto preventing build. will look at it in the evening.

[11:21] <masak> aff: statistics-lite is now in the projects.list in proto, and you're now a certified proto committer. welcome aboard!

[11:22] <aff> masak: Thanks, let me know if there are any bugs on my side.

[11:22] *** hanekomu joined
[11:23] <masak> aff: will do. haven't actually looked at the code, but will review it when time permits.

[11:55] <aff> Hmm is parrot broken?

[11:55] <aff> error:imcc:syntax error, unexpected VAR, expecting '(' ('sub') in file 'src/builtins/guts.pir' line 1362

[11:55] <aff> Parrot r38276

[11:56] <wayland76> aff: Have you asked on the #parrot channel?  (irc.parrot.org)

[11:56] <aff> wayland76: Not yet

[11:57] *** ruoso joined
[11:59] <moritz_> azawawi: what are you trying to do?

[11:59] <moritz_> sorry, I meant aff 

[11:59] <moritz_> that usually happens when some dynops aren't build or can't be found

[11:59] <aff> Simply build latest rakudo.

[12:00] <moritz_> aff: try a 'make clean' in rakudo after building parrot

[12:00] *** azawawi left
[12:01] <aff> moritz: Thanks I'll try that.

[12:02] *** azawawi joined
[12:03] <aff> moritz: 'make clean' fixed it. Thanks again.

[12:05] <wollmers> std: $x = 'SPACE'; "\c[$x]";

[12:05] <p6eval> std 26397: OUTPUT«Potential difficulties:␤  Variable $x is not predeclared at /tmp/SxaKI3Y1hs line 1:␤------> [32m$x[31m = 'SPACE'; "\c[$x]";[0m␤ok 00:04 36m␤»

[12:06] <masak> std: my $x = 'SPACE'; "\c[$x]";

[12:06] <p6eval> std 26397: OUTPUT«ok 00:04 36m␤»

[12:06] <wollmers> rakudo:  my $x = 'SPACE'; "\c[$x]";

[12:06] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«perl6regex parse error: Unrecognized character name $x at offset 21, found '$'␤current instr.: 'parrot;PGE;Perl6Regex;parse_error' pc 10792 (compilers/pge/PGE/Perl6Regex.pir:1367)␤»

[12:07] *** bacek_ joined
[12:07] <masak> wollmers: please submit a rakudobug.

[12:07] <wollmers> need to look in specs first

[12:07] <masak> fine.

[12:07] *** ejs1 joined
[12:08] *** literal_ is now known as literal

[12:10] <wollmers> masak: AFAIK there is nothing like get_charnames_from_string(), should also be specified

[12:11] <masak> wollmers: pmichaud and I were talking about that in the weekend.

[12:11] <masak> wollmers: the conclusion was that yes, there's a hole in the spec there.

[12:11] <masak> pmichaud said, basically, "write the spec and I will implement it".

[12:12] <masak> I didn't get around to patching the spec during the hackathon, and when I later looked at it, it looked complicated.

[12:12] <masak> the method should really reside on something like Char, I think.

[12:12] <masak> but I don't know my Unicode well enough to be certain.

[12:13] *** asakra left
[12:15] <wollmers> masak: what do you need? It is just like .ord

[12:15] <masak> wollmers: aye, in effect it is.

[12:16] <masak> wollmers: maybe we should just start simple and put it on Str.

[12:16] <masak> have it return an array of charnames.

[12:18] <wollmers> masak: yes, array is fine.

[12:19] <wollmers> masak: should'nt .ord also return an array?

[12:19] <masak> um, I meant List, I think.

[12:19] <masak> wollmers: aye. see the spec. :)

[12:21] <wollmers> masak: ord in rakudo only returns the first char

[12:21] <masak> so it does.

[12:22] <masak> Rakudo doesn't conform to spec in that instance.

[12:22] <masak> S29:298.

[12:22] <wollmers> masak: known bug?

[12:23] <masak> wollmers: maybe not. also rakudobug-submittable if you want.

[12:29] <pmichaud> good morning

[12:30] <wayland76> 'morning

[12:30] <aff> Good afternoon

[12:30] <wayland76> Just a comment on the recent discussion; I suspect that the get_char_names whatever should be on Any

[12:31] <wayland76> And it should probably just be called Any.charnames or something

[12:31] <wayland76> (pm: that was all directed at masak/wollmers, but no doubt will interest you)

[12:32] <pmichaud> wayland76: it definitely interests me, but I'll wait for the movi... er, spec.

[12:32] <pmichaud> :-)

[12:32] <masak> :)

[12:32] * masak likes charnames

[12:32] <masak> might spec it too, if I can be bothered.

[12:32] <pmichaud> I think charnames sounds very reasonable.

[12:32] <masak> if someone else beats me to it, that's fine too.

[12:33] <pmichaud> I wonder if I should upgrade my desktop to 9.04 today.

[12:37] *** lumi_ left
[12:39] <aff> pmichaud: I had no issues upgrading 8.10 -> 9.04 the other day.

[12:41] <pmichaud> I've been testing out 9.04 on my laptop, it's working quite nicely.  I'm definitely switching my laptop to 9.04, so I'm thinking I should do the same for my desktop.

[12:41] <pmichaud> also it looks like I can go back to 64-bit (yay!)

[12:44] <masak> time to go study Chinese.

[12:44] *** masak left
[12:45] <patmat> hmm pmichaud so Ubuntu 9.04 is great? downloaded it today

[12:46] <pmichaud> patmat: I'm on kubuntu, actually.

[12:46] *** azawawi left
[12:46] <pmichaud> For me it's good because it unlocks some of the hardware in my laptop (that wasn't working under 8.04)

[12:46] <patmat> oh you like KDE?

[12:47] <pmichaud> yes, I've tended to go with KDE.  Never got the hang of gnome, and when I looked at Ubuntu 9.04 beta it wouldn't install on my laptop (wouldn't even boot completely from the cd)

[12:47] <pmichaud> I'm sure it's fixed now with Ubuntu 9.04 non-beta, but since KDE seems to be working I'll probably go with ti.

[12:47] <pmichaud> *it

[12:48] <patmat> its okay then, i prefer Gnome :)

[12:48] <patmat> but at the moment i'm using NetBSD with fluxbox anyway

[12:48] <moritz_> for me a window manager + desktop may not take more than 5 seconds start up time

[12:48] <patmat> but i'm a bit annoyed, think about it to change to Ubuntu..

[12:49] <pmichaud> I've liked (k)ubuntu a lot since I first installed it in 2007.  Haven't had a reason to switch back to anything else (having done RH, SUSE, Fedora previously)

[12:50] <patmat> FC is also nice, i tested it once.. hmm just a matter of taste

[12:50] *** pmurias joined
[12:52] <aff> Time to go, have a nice weekend all.

[12:53] *** aff left
[12:55] <patmat> pmichaud: i'm interested in CentOS too, did you gave it a try?

[12:55] *** azawawi joined
[12:56] <pmichaud> patmat: no, haven't tried CentOS.  Several others I work with use it though.

[12:57] <wayland76> I'm on Fedora/CentOS

[12:57] <wayland76> And E17 :)

[12:57] <frettled> Debian etch and lenny, MacOS X 10.4.x, Windows XP here.  (main platforms)

[12:58] <patmat> just know a nice Administrator, he loves the CentOS on servers and Fedora on WS combination

[12:58] <frettled> But the server environment at work also includes Slackware 12 + slamd 12.

[12:58] <patmat> runs well

[12:58] <frettled> slamd64 12, sorry

[12:58] <patmat> have to run crappy WinXP at work..

[12:58] <patmat> it's so annoying

[13:02] *** ejs2 joined
[13:03] <jnthn> Could be worse. You could have to run Vista. ;-P

[13:04] <wayland76> jnthn: I was going to say that :).  Or 98 :)

[13:05] *** LylePerl joined
[13:05] <jnthn> Or ME. Horrors.

[13:05] <patmat> errr no luck for me its not vista

[13:05] <patmat> yes ME is the worst i think

[13:05] <patmat> had it as a kid for games

[13:05] <pmichaud> 3.1

[13:05] *** jferrero left
[13:05] <patmat> it crashed always and then it just was unbootable... first and last time with ME :P

[13:06] <wayland76> I still remember DOS 2.13 :)

[13:06] <azawawi> what's the default package in perl6? main?

[13:06] <moritz_> Main I think

[13:06] <wayland76> Yeah, ME was worse than 98

[13:06] <patmat> i mean i did nothing, just wanted to play some games ;D

[13:06] <patmat> everything went to hell with it :D

[13:07] <wayland76> probably MAIN rather than Main, yes?

[13:07] *** maja_ joined
[13:08] <moritz_> no

[13:08] <pmichaud> "main"

[13:08] <pmichaud> oh, "main" if P5

[13:08] <moritz_> rakudo: sub f { say "m" }; module Bar { Main::f }

[13:08] <pmichaud> otherwise they're in the GLOBAL package

[13:09] <p6eval> rakudo 9a5305: OUTPUT«Null PMC access in invoke()␤current instr.: 'parrot;Bar;_block33' pc 250 (EVAL_20:107)␤»

[13:09] <pmichaud> Rakudo doesn't implement this yet.

[13:09] <pmichaud> S10:66

[13:09] <pmichaud> All files start out being parsed in the C<GLOBAL>

[13:09] <pmichaud> package, but may switch to some other package scope depending on the first

[13:09] <pmichaud> package-ish declaration.

[13:10] <wayland76> Well, I was right about the capital letters, anyway :)

[13:10] <pmichaud> (The spec on this has changed since the last time that Rakudo investigated what it should do here.)

[13:10] <azawawi> so "GLOBAL" in P6 and "main" in P5

[13:11] *** ejs1 left
[13:11] <azawawi> thx

[13:13] *** frairfox left
[13:18] <ascent_> moritz_: you can close RT #64452.

[13:20] *** maja left
[13:20] <moritz_> ascent_: you're right, I tested that a few hours ago :)

[13:22] <PerlJam> good localtime #perl6

[13:22] *** exodist joined
[13:22] <moritz_> hijo PerlJam 

[13:26] *** cognominal left
[13:28] *** davidad joined
[13:29] <pmichaud> good morning, PerlJam

[13:31] <wayland76> o/

[13:32] <moritz_> in a bit less than one year I'll have been a #perl6 camel for π years :-)

[13:35] <moritz_> I see that masak is way past that #perl6 age :-)

[13:35] *** bacek__ joined
[13:35] *** ispy_ joined
[13:37] *** bacek_ left
[13:45] <jnthn> http://blog.cyclone3.org/rfordinal/176_bratislava.pm-a-rakudo-perl-6-bratislava.html

[13:47] <pmichaud> :-)

[13:47] <pmichaud> jnthn: so, do you give the presentations in english?

[13:47] <pmichaud> or just the slides?

[13:47] <jnthn> pmichaud: Yeah, English.

[13:47] <jnthn> My Slovak aint' up to giving a presentation yet.

[13:48] <jnthn> Certainly not a 30 minute one anyway.

[13:48] <pmichaud> have you decided what to present at YAPC::EU yet?

[13:48] <jnthn> No

[13:48] <pmichaud> I'm also curious what masak++ has submitted :-)

[13:52] *** meteorjay joined
[13:52] <pmichaud> I think I'll give a talk on Perl 6 regexes and grammars

[13:52] <jnthn> Sounds good.

[13:52] <jnthn> I already did talk about the OO stuff and types last year.

[13:52] <jnthn> Now you did the Regex thing maybe I can write Grammar::Generate. ;-)

[13:52] <pmichaud> for YAPC::NA they've only got 45 minutes slots.  So I took my "Perl 6 today" talk (which really wants 90 minutes) and broke it into two :-)

[13:53] *** ejs2 left
[13:53] <moritz_> :-)

[13:54] <azawawi> moritz_: finally http://feather.perl6.nl/~azawawi/Padre-Plugin-Perl6-4.png. package_declarator:* and regexp_declarator:* are now fully supported with GLOBAL.

[13:55] <moritz_> neat.

[13:56] *** km2 joined
[13:56] <azawawi> moritz_: now off to scope-d declarators in Padre perl6 :)

[13:57] *** riffraff left
[13:57] *** justatheory joined
[13:57] <azawawi> moritz_: the next thing im thinking of is the same tree for the full html mode in Syntax::Highlight::Perl6

[13:58] <PerlJam> from a "marketing" standpoint ... I wouldn't mind all of the unimplemented stuff in rakudo so much if the error messages were nicer.  (but maybe that's just me)

[13:59] *** alester joined
[14:00] <PerlJam> For instance, when I first tried ruby, there was so many things that caused it to barf, it wasn't even funny.  But I never thought "oh, this is just something that's not yet implemented" because the error messages were decent (if uninformative).  Rakudo can go one better and give decent and informative error messages instead of just dumping.

[14:01] <PerlJam> (I don't know if I'm making enough sense)

[14:01] <moritz_> PerlJam++

[14:03] <PerlJam> It's the difference between, "oh, this doesn't work"  and "here be dragons!"

[14:03] <azawawi> yeah sounds nice...

[14:04] *** pmurias left
[14:08] *** ispy_ left
[14:09] *** ejs left
[14:13] <pmichaud> PerlJam: it's often hard to put in "not yet implemented" stuff, though.

[14:13] <pmichaud> But I'd be very accepting of patches that provide more useful/informative error messages.

[14:14] *** skids joined
[14:17] <wayland76> Before we can use STD, we need LTM, right?

[14:17] <pmichaud> and other things too.

[14:17] <pmichaud> but it's not just STD.

[14:18] <pmichaud> LTM is _a_ blocker for STD, but it's certainly not the only one.

[14:18] *** ispy_ joined
[14:21] <wayland76> Yeah, I figured that, Thanks :)

[14:29] *** jan_ left
[14:33] *** PerlPilot joined
[14:37] *** ispy_ left
[14:42] <TimToady> rehi

[14:42] <lambdabot> TimToady: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[14:42] <TimToady> @messages

[14:42] <lambdabot> azawawi said 10h 39m 12s ago: is it okay to prefix each STD error/warning with an "error" or "warning" so that we can filter them?

[14:43] <TimToady> azawawi: I don't like error/warning prefixes on aesthetic grounds, especially since many of our errors and warnings are multiline these days

[14:43] <TimToady> and filtration really ought to be handled by an internal mechanism somehow

[14:44] *** nbrown joined
[14:46] <pmichaud> TimToady: wb

[14:46] <TimToady> In fact, we need a mechanism for generating full error reports to an html file or some such, with a link in the short error message to "more info"

[14:47] <sbp> *cough* æsthetic *cough*

[14:48] <PerlJam> americans are allergic to ligatures ;)

[14:48] <TimToady> I use Texas ligatures.  :)

[14:49] *** lumi joined
[14:50] <wayland76> æh well :)

[14:50] *** DemoFreak joined
[14:51] <sbp> hehe

[14:52] <TimToady> what I can't stand is software that turns Texas smileys into ligature smileys... :)

[14:53] <pmichaud> why doesn't unicode have more smileys?

[14:53] <TimToady> Unicode tends to see things in black and white

[14:54] <wayland76> ‽

[14:55] <TimToady> I always thought that ligature was for people who can't make up their mind whether they mean !? or ?!

[14:55] <wayland76> Someone recently suggested that it should mean "What on earth...?"

[14:55] <TimToady> and usually I mean !?! or ?!?!?! in any case

[14:56] <wayland76> Well, the second could be ‽‽‽

[14:56] <pmichaud> and bangs a shoe on the table.

[14:56] <sbp> I use ㋡ sometimes

[14:56] <sbp> I know I shouldn’t…

[14:57] <sbp> there is that Japanese postal sign too, a stylised face

[14:57] <wayland76> ༼

[14:57] *** cognominal joined
[14:58] <sbp> .u postal mark face

[14:58] <phenny> U+3020 POSTAL MARK FACE (〠)

[14:59] <TimToady> Agh, I'm using Kochi Gothic, why doesn't it have those characters!?!?!!!

[15:00] <wayland76> I'm using a font called "SimPL"

[15:01] <wayland76> It doesn't do the interrobang, or sbp's first symbol, but it does the others

[15:01] *** eternaleye left
[15:01] <TimToady> gah, neither does bitstream

[15:01] <sbp> U+3020 was added in Unicode 1.1.0 (1993)

[15:02] <wayland76> Oh, just switched everything to Linux Libertine, and they all show up

[15:02] <sbp> seems that Kochi Gothic post-dates that, so no excuse there

[15:02] <wayland76> (Linux Libertine is a free font)

[15:02] <sbp> Libertine: yeah, nice serif

[15:02] <TimToady> don't like serifs

[15:03] *** ZuLuuuuuu joined
[15:03] <sbp> hmm. I've got U+3020 in AppleGothic, Arial Unicode, Hiragino (several), and Osaka

[15:03] <wayland76> Oh, wait, sbp's first one still isn't showing up

[15:03] <sbp> what about those new trendy semi-serifs? Optima and the like

[15:03] <wayland76> sbp: What are you using there?

[15:04] <sbp> doing where? the “I use ㋡ sometimes” line?

[15:04] <sbp> U+32E1 CIRCLED KATAKANA TU if so

[15:05] <wayland76> sbp: I meant what font.  That character shows up as a box with an X in it

[15:06] <sbp> oh, only Arial Unicode and Hiragino there

[15:06] *** M_o_C joined
[15:06] <wayland76> SimPL has serifs, but it's fixed-width

[15:06] <wayland76> Ok

[15:06] <sbp> I've got all kinds of supposedly unicode replete fonts, but it's amazing how little coverage there is on some of these characters

[15:09] *** Psyche^ joined
[15:13] *** nihiliad joined
[15:21] *** Patterner left
[15:21] *** Psyche^ is now known as Patterner

[15:21] *** araujo left
[15:34] *** ruoso left
[15:36] *** FurnaceBoy joined
[15:42] *** iblechbot joined
[15:43] <azawawi> moritz_: ping

[15:43] <moritz_> azawawi: echo response

[15:43] <azawawi> moritz_: method set-cache-entry( $key, $value ) { ... }

[15:44] <azawawi> moritz_: set-cache-entry is seen as 5 tokens from redspans

[15:44] <azawawi> moritz_: ouch :)

[15:45] <moritz_> azawawi: tell that TimToady, not me ;-)

[15:47] <azawawi> @tell TimToady set-cache-entry is seen as 5 tokens, http://feather.perl6.nl/~azawawi/test.html

[15:47] <lambdabot> Consider it noted.

[15:47] <azawawi> moritz_: i knew those dashes would come back to haunt me :)

[15:48] <TimToady> I just ran viv on that, and it's one entry

[15:48] <lambdabot> TimToady: You have 1 new message. '/msg lambdabot @messages' to read it.

[15:48] <TimToady> please don't use @tell if I'm logged on--I backlog

[15:48] <TimToady> @clear

[15:48] <lambdabot> Messages cleared.

[15:48] <azawawi> TimToady: noted :)

[15:48] <moritz_> azawawi: I see no 'show syntax tree' button on that page

[15:48] <TimToady> but my version of viv is a bit divergent at the moment

[15:49] <TimToady> and in fact, you should probably snapshot your current version and turn it into a .pm

[15:49] <TimToady> because viv is moving toward a model in which every rule gets its own VAST class

[15:49] <TimToady> so infix__Tilde derives from infix, for instance

[15:50] <TimToady> or you can wait and resync to that model

[15:50] <TimToady> but viv is still aiming to replace gimme5

[15:50] *** jedai joined
[15:50] <azawawi> moritz_: fixing it... damn save-as feature

[15:51] *** jan_ joined
[15:51] <TimToady> anyway, my viv just says:

[15:51] <TimToady> .: &8 !!perl/hash:VAST::identifier TEXT: set-cache-entry

[15:53] <moritz_> std: 3 but { method foo { } }

[15:54] <p6eval> std 26397: OUTPUT«TRIE failed at Cursor.pm line 804.␤FAILED 00:02 34m␤»

[15:54] <azawawi> TimToady, moritz_: here is the fixed version. http://feather.perl6.nl/~azawawi/test2.html

[15:54] <moritz_> ouch

[15:55] <TimToady> lex/ rot, perhaps

[15:55] <TimToady> works here

[15:55] * azawawi clears lex

[15:55] *** zamolxes left
[15:55] * moritz_ rebuilds

[15:56] <moritz_> TimToady: I found that in an example is S02, but it's not stated explicit anywhere... is the closure treated as an anonymous role?

[15:57] <moritz_> he, the dash is matched by the rule apostrophe ;-)

[15:57] *** alanhaggai left
[15:58] <azawawi> TimToady: nop no lex rotting over here. same result.

[15:59] * azawawi wishes that perl6 .pm files would be called .pm6 or something

[15:59] <PerlJam> azawawi: so call them that

[16:03] <azawawi> PerlJam: we use 'use v6' to detect whether a .pm is p5/p6 in Padre.  However, in November it is missing in some parts.

[16:04] <PerlJam> oh, so patch november and add the "use v6;"

[16:04] <moritz_> azawawi: also 'grammar', 'class' and 'module' introduce Perl 6 code

[16:04] <pasteling> "azawawi" at 212.38.137.139 pasted "Padre P6/P5 detection code" (11 lines, 306B) at http://sial.org/pbot/36186

[16:04] <moritz_> if it's the first statement in that file

[16:05] <moritz_> return 1 if $text =~ /^\s*(?:class|grammar|module)\s+\w/msx;

[16:05] <azawawi> moritz_: or role

[16:05] <PerlJam> that check for =head[12]  seems wrong to me.  what's the logic there?

[16:05] <moritz_> right.

[16:06] <PerlJam> will perl 6 code not have =head1 in it?

[16:06] <moritz_> it may

[16:06] <moritz_> =begin POD

[16:06] <moritz_> =head1 foo

[16:06] <moritz_> =end POD

[16:06] <PerlJam> right, so that check probably shouldn't be there

[16:07] <pugs_svn> r26398 | lwall++ | [STD] build caps correctly for chained and list prec

[16:07] <pugs_svn> r26398 | lwall++ | [gimme5] don't use autoquoted hash subscripts

[16:07] <pugs_svn> r26398 | lwall++ | [viv] move toward class-per-rule VAST to preserve rule info better

[16:07] <PerlJam> and I'm not sure that you can say it's perl6 code if it has "=begin pod" either.

[16:08] <azawawi> nice im going to fix is_perl6() now

[16:08] <PerlJam> azawawi: is there a git/svn repo for padre somewhere?  :)

[16:09] <azawawi> PerlJam: http://svn.perlide.org/padre/trunk/Padre

[16:10] <azawawi> PerlJam: http://svn.perlide.org/padre/trunk/ # if you need to see the plugins + Padre

[16:11] <wayland76> TimToady: Are you planning to offer an opinion on the Unicode bracketing question; whether Ps/Pe should also be treated as bracketing?

[16:14] <TimToady> you mean beyond what S02:74 already says?

[16:14] <TimToady> (still backlogging, btw)

[16:14] <azawawi> TimToady: how does one detect STD.pm lex rotting?

[16:15] <TimToady> rm -rf lex/

[16:15] <TimToady> make

[16:15] <TimToady> well, just touch STD.pm and make will do

[16:15] <[particle]> or do you mean STD.pm is older than current spec?

[16:15] <TimToady> my copy parses that code fine

[16:16] <[particle]> that's detected by making sure tests are up to spec, and STD.pm parses them

[16:16] <wayland76> Whoops, sorry, I meant Pi/Pf.  I asked a question on the mailing list about it -- if you haven't gotten to that yet, that's fine :)

[16:19] <azawawi> TimToady: like a $VERSION for the lex directory that each newer STD.pm updates to determine whether to delete/use this lex directory or not.  

[16:20] <[particle]> i think that's just 'touch'

[16:27] <moritz_> std: 3 but { method foo { ... } }

[16:27] <p6eval> std 26398: OUTPUT«ok 00:02 35m␤»

[16:31] *** jhorwitz joined
[16:35] <pugs_svn> r26399 | azawawi++ | [S:H:P6] simpler version naming schema; newer std.

[16:42] <pugs_svn> r26400 | moritz++ | [t/spec] basic tests for Match.perl

[16:43] *** alanhaggai joined
[16:43] *** ispy_ joined
[16:44] *** alanhaggai left
[16:56] <pugs_svn> r26401 | lwall++ | [S02] also count Pi/Pf characters as bracketing, wayland76++

[17:06] <wayland76> Yay!

[17:06] <wayland76> :)

[17:09] <wayland76> http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/category/Pi/list.htm for those interested

[17:09] <wayland76> Click on the "view" links to see any characters that don't show up in your font :)

[17:10] <moritz_> they all display here ;-)

[17:11] <pugs_svn> r26402 | moritz++ | [t/spec] RT #63708

[17:13] *** ruoso joined
[17:16] *** Auzon joined
[17:16] *** M_o_C left
[17:16] <ruoso> Hello!

[17:16] <Auzon> Hi ruoso :)

[17:16] <Auzon> I hear we have a basic LWP::Simple now. Where does it live?

[17:19] <moritz_> probably on github :)

[17:20] <moritz_> aka "I don't know"

[17:20] * Auzon looks around :)

[17:20] <moritz_> but I think andy blogged about it...

[17:20] <alester> check the perlbuzz twitter feed

[17:20] <moritz_> http://use.perl.org/~cosimo/journal/38826

[17:21] <moritz_> @seen cosimo

[17:21] <lambdabot> I saw cosimo leaving #perl6 6m 21d 5m 10s ago, and .

[17:21] <Auzon> I think I may have found it in the pugs repo

[17:22] <dukeleto|work> Auzon: link ?

[17:22] <wayland76> What about HTTP::Something in the November or Web.pm repo?

[17:22] <Auzon> hah, no, the LWP in pugs is ancient

[17:23] *** cdarroch joined
[17:23] <jnthn> I didn't remember the code being published anywhere for that...

[17:23] <jnthn> Or seeing it get put anywhere, anyway.

[17:24] <jnthn> The sockets stuff in Rakudo that it uses got comitted.

[17:24] <Auzon> Yeah, I saw socket stuff when I just built Rakudo

[17:24] <wayland76> I assumed masak had put the HTTP::Whatever stuff somewhere, but I guess I'm wrong

[17:25] <wayland76> Asking on #november-wiki might be an idea too (that tends to be the channel where web-related stuff gets discussed)

[17:26] <moritz_> nearly all November people are in here too

[17:26] <wayland76> ...nearly :)

[17:26] <wayland76> But it's easier to miss stuff in the backlog here

[17:27] <moritz_> aye

[17:28] *** nbrown left
[17:29] <Auzon> ok, I'll see if anyone in #november-wiki knows. Thanks :)

[17:32] *** spx2 joined
[17:33] <spx2> is " tell" implemented for file descriptors open on pipes ?

[17:33] *** payload joined
[17:34] *** abra left
[17:38] *** xhell_ joined
[17:38] <Trey> the modified cperl-mode for emacs in the pugs repo doesn't handle modern syntax anymore... with the earlier discussion of Syntax::Highlight::Perl6, I wondered if there's been any work on emacs?

[17:40] *** nbrown joined
[17:42] *** cognominal left
[17:43] *** ZuLuuuuuu left
[17:43] *** mikehh joined
[17:46] <mikehh> rakudo (9a53051) builds on parrot r38330 - make test/make spectest PASS - Ubuntu Jaunty i386

[17:46] *** abra joined
[17:46] *** xhell_ left
[17:46] *** abra left
[17:47] *** abra joined
[17:48] <skids> any blog postings anywhere yet on all the interesting discussions at Oslo?

[17:49] <skids> I'm sure more was done than deciding to kill the fish :-)

[17:49] <wayland76> What fish?

[17:49] <skids> =<>

[17:49] <wayland76> Ah :)

[17:50] <wayland76> Fish is usually ><> I think :)

[17:52] <[particle]> what's emacs?

[17:54] <wayland76> A text editor and operating system written in elisp

[17:54] <wayland76> (I exaggerate.  It's a text editor with a built in lisp programming language)

[17:56] <wayland76> It's one of the two primary text editors used on Unix systems, the other being called "vi"

[17:57] <wayland76> each text editor, and they have flame wars, like Ford vs. Holden (that's probably Ford vs. Chevvy in the US)

[17:57] <wayland76> That should have said each text editor has a reputation....

[17:57] <skids> C-x ( M-x search-forward vi ^J DEL DEL very irritating ) C-u 1000 C-x e

[17:58] <skids> :-)

[17:58] <wayland76> Skids is picking on emacs

[17:58] <skids> picking on it?  I couldn't survive without it.

[17:58] <wayland76> As a nano user, I can stand back and ignore the text editor wars until I admit that I'm a nano user :)

[17:59] * [particle] is a vi user since 1991 (now using gvim)

[17:59] <wayland76> Sorry, I didn't read carefully enough.  skids is implying that "vi" stands for "very irritating"

[18:00] <Trey> skids: do you make do with cperl-mode getting all confused with perl 6, or do you just use plain text mode or something?

[18:00] <skids> C-x C-v /usr/man/man1/vim.1 C-@ M-> C-k just type :q C-x C-s

[18:00] <pugs_svn> r26403 | lwall++ | [S02] clarify the status of many-to-one bracketing

[18:01] <[particle]> trey: i haven't seen any commits for emacs lately, they've all been vim-shaped

[18:03] <pugs_svn> r26404 | lwall++ | [STD] tweak opener/closer tables to match S02

[18:04] *** azawawi left
[18:04] *** nbrown left
[18:04] <skids> Trey: depends what I'm editing.  The pod problem is really annoying but if it doesn't have new pod in it...

[18:05] <skids> then I M-X text-mode

[18:05] <skids> (if there's new pod)

[18:05] <Trey> it's nearly made we want to sit down and learn elisp.  nearly. :)

[18:06] * skids has a sneaking suspicion he will understand LISP more the next time he tries... what with closure-heavy Perl6 running through his brain.

[18:06] *** nihiliad left
[18:09] <Trey> besides the pods, parenless control structures and twigils are the places that cperl-mode gets most confused.  and unfortunately, once cperl-mode gets confused, you're best off just turning it off, it does more harm than good

[18:10] <skids> Have you tried normal perl-mode?

[18:10] <Trey> no, haven't used that in years.  i'll give it a try

[18:12] *** abra left
[18:15] *** nihiliad joined
[18:16] *** abra joined
[18:21] *** payload left
[18:27] *** pmurias joined
[18:31] <pugs_svn> r26405 | ruoso++ | [re-mildew] CORE builds successfully.

[18:31] <pugs_svn> r26405 | ruoso++ | [re-smop] add package and flattenedscope to s1p

[18:35] <ruoso> pmurias, hi

[18:40] *** cognominal joined
[18:41] <pmurias> ruoso: hi

[18:42] <ruoso> I think we're very close to end this refactoring

[18:42] <ruoso> take a look at this last commit I made...

[18:43] <ruoso> it fails with a call to BIND in a false

[18:43] <ruoso> I presume something was supposed to return a hash bvalue

[18:43] <ruoso> but is return a false instead

[18:44] <pmurias> looking...

[18:45] <pmurias> ruoso: when does it fail?

[18:46] <ruoso> if you try to run "1;" in mildew

[18:46] *** nbrown joined
[18:46] <ruoso> it might be happening at the CORE loading

[18:47] <pmurias> ruoso: you brought back NULL is equivalent to (SMOP__Object*) {NULL} when passed to capture_create?

[18:50] <ruoso> hmm... I didn't actually realise you had removed that...

[18:51] <ruoso> it simply failed and I "fixed" it ;)

[18:51] <ruoso> but I can re-fix it

[18:52] <pmurias> the BIND error is cause by some codes not having a singature

[18:52] <pmurias> * caused

[18:52] <pmurias> like sub foo {}

[18:53] <ruoso> hmm...

[18:53] <TimToady> std: say q‛foo’;

[18:53] <p6eval> std 26405: OUTPUT«ok 00:03 35m␤»

[18:53] <ruoso> so it's the default signature tat is broken

[18:54] <pmurias> it's unported over

[18:55] <ruoso> hmm... i think it's ok to port it

[18:57] *** nihiliad left
[19:01] *** nihiliad joined
[19:01] <meppl> good night

[19:01] *** maluco left
[19:02] *** meppl left
[19:02] <pugs_svn> r26406 | pmurias++ | [re-smop] remove the NULL is (SMOP__Object*[]) {NULL} sugar in capture construction

[19:02] <wayland76> o/

[19:05] <pmurias> ruoso: the alternative would be to have mildew supply a signature to all blocks

[19:09] <wayland76> std: su♭ foo {}

[19:09] <p6eval> std 26406: OUTPUT«##### PARSE FAILED #####␤Syntax error (two terms in a row?) at /tmp/xdNB4ZoJ7G line 1:␤------> [32msu[31m♭ foo {}[0m␤    expecting any of:␤ POST␤   argument list␤      infix or meta-infix␤      infix stopper␤   postfix␤ postfix_prefix_meta_operator␤       standard stopper␤     

[19:09] <p6eval> .. statement modifier loop...

[19:11] <TimToady> nice, try, but ♭ isn't a \w

[19:12] <TimToady> s/,//

[19:13] <wayland76> Sorry, just trying to mess with people's minds :)

[19:13] *** ruoso left
[19:14] <arnsholt> wayland76: Yeah, I was wondering what the semantics of "su-flat" should be =)

[19:16] *** _REPLeffect joined
[19:16] *** nbrown_ joined
[19:18] *** hanekomu_ joined
[19:26] <pmurias> k

[19:27] <pmurias> sorry

[19:28] *** [1]nbrown joined
[19:29] *** nbrown left
[19:29] *** [1]nbrown is now known as nbrown

[19:45] *** nbrown_ left
[19:45] <pugs_svn> r26407 | lwall++ | [camelia] remove opaque backlayers

[19:48] *** _REPLeffect left
[19:49] *** nbrown_ joined
[19:49] *** araujo joined
[19:49] <pugs_svn> r26408 | lwall++ | [p6-proj] use camelia with transparency

[19:52] <pugs_svn> r26409 | lwall++ | [p6-proj] use 16x16 version to reduce blur

[19:55] *** ruoso joined
[19:56] *** nbrown left
[19:56] *** nbrown_ is now known as nbrown

[19:57] * ruoso back 

[20:03] *** goksie joined
[20:04] <pugs_svn> r26410 | moritz++ | [t/spec] tests for RT #62162

[20:11] <moritz_> for the first time since January the RT queue of tickets I own is empty ;-)

[20:11] *** abra left
[20:12] <jnthn> moritz++

[20:15] <pugs_svn> r26411 | lwall++ | [p6-proj] install better png of camelia

[20:18] <pugs_svn> r26412 | pmurias++ | [re-mildew] a signature is emitted for every Code

[20:18] <pugs_svn> r26412 | pmurias++ | [re-smop] fixed SMOP_HUNT_NULLS, update SMOP__NATIVE__create_create calls in package.ri

[20:18] <pmurias> ruoso: do you think an $interpreter.return method is sensible

[20:19] <pmurias> ?

[20:20] *** rocket_guatemala joined
[20:25] <rocket_guatemala> Hey how can I help.

[20:25] <rocket_guatemala> A little more clarification: I've been using perl 5 for web devolopment here in Guatemala for a long time, and I would like to help make perl 6 a great language more quickly  ;)  My question is: is this still relevant: http://perlgeek.de/blog-en/perl-6/test-suite-reorganization.writeback?

[20:25] <rocket_guatemala> or is there other way to help that is more pressing?

[20:25] *** hanekom__ joined
[20:26] <rocket_guatemala> I would like to help with S19 and eventually do something like ruby's irb

[20:26] <jnthn> hi rocket_guatemala! :-)

[20:26] <jnthn> Yes, that post by moritz_ is almost certainly still relevant.

[20:27] <jnthn> For example, S12-roles almost certainly should be S14-roles...

[20:27] <jnthn> See also http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/t/TASKS

[20:27] *** hanekomu_ left
[20:28] <rocket_guatemala> great

[20:28] <rocket_guatemala> so ... ill look into it, another question:

[20:28] *** pmurias_ joined
[20:28] <rocket_guatemala> where and how should i send patches?

[20:28] <jnthn> If you are doing renaming though, it would be highly useful if you could also get a checkout of Rakudo.

[20:29] <pugs_svn> r26413 | lwall++ | [p6-proj] shrink camelia by 2

[20:29] <jnthn> And make sure t/spectest.data tracks the changes.

[20:29] *** pmurias left
[20:29] <jnthn> The test suite has a very liberal commit bit policy. :-)

[20:29] <jnthn> So if you bug someone like, say, moritz_, they can just give you a commit bit.

[20:29] <jnthn> So no need to send patches.

[20:29] <TimToady> who wants a commit bit?

[20:30] <rocket_guatemala> nice

[20:30] *** pmurias_ is now known as pmurias

[20:30] <jnthn> TimToady: rocket_guatemala would like to help with testing stuff and other bits

[20:30] <rocket_guatemala> so, ill start haking and then bug someone when I got somethin done

[20:30] <jnthn> Great. :-)

[20:31] <TimToady> msg me your email and desired svn name

[20:31] <rocket_guatemala> email: [email@hidden.address] svn name: rocket

[20:32] <pugs_svn> r26414 | pmurias++ | [re-smop] fix a bug in adhoc_signature`

[20:32] *** jhorwitz left
[20:32] <ascent_> test suite for perl6 shouldn't be in another repo (not pugs) ? then used by build system for compilers (like rakudo) ?

[20:33] <TimToady> commitbit sent

[20:33] <TimToady> it's customary to add yourself to AUTHORS as first commit to test it

[20:33] <TimToady> welcome aboard

[20:34] <ruoso> pmurias, what do you mean?

[20:34] <rocket_guatemala> great, thanks and thanks all for the great pointers, ill get started right away

[20:35] <rocket_guatemala> and thanks for the commit bit, ill add myself to the authors when i got somethin done

[20:35] <skids> ascent_: eventually implementation-common stuff may end up on github (user perl6) but that will happen when a majority of devels are sold on the idea.

[20:36] <pugs_svn> r26415 | lwall++ | [p6-proj] shrink camelia in index.html too...

[20:36] <skids> ascent_: As it is the pugs repository is easier to commit to.

[20:37] <moritz_> I'm thinking about moving the test suite out of the pugs repo, or maybe reorder that repo a bit, but it's nothing to hurry with

[20:37] <pmurias> ruoso: a convenience method which would do all the $interpreter.goto($interpreter.continuation.back) stuff

[20:37] <ruoso> maybe... yes...

[20:38] <moritz_> svn works fine for now, and those who love git (like me) can you git-svn

[20:40] <moritz_> TimToady: uhm, that looks crappy

[20:40] <moritz_> now it says width="502" but it's 252

[20:41] <moritz_> and btw I'm not too attached to the colours, feel free to improve them ;-)

[20:41] <pugs_svn> r26416 | lwall++ | [p6-proj] gah, can't do math

[20:42] <TimToady> should be better now

[20:42] <moritz_> it is.

[20:42] <moritz_> is there a particular reason for using a white background, instead of transparent?

[20:44] <TimToady> the favicon uses transparent, feel free to change

[20:44] * frettled must have missed a URL :)

[20:44] <TimToady> I couldn't find a way to tell Open Drawing to do that

[20:44] <frettled> TimToady: glad to see you made it safely out of the tourist traps

[20:44] <TimToady> OpenOffice Draw, even

[20:45] <frettled> TimToady: and regarding that thing about whether Oslo had city walls ever or not; it never did, they thought the rivers were sufficient (ancient Oslo was laid out differently)

[20:45] <TimToady> just don't turn her eyes transparent along with everything else white :)

[20:47] *** fridim_ left
[20:47] <TimToady> frettled: we had a good time pretending to be tourists... :)

[20:48] <frettled> too bad you weren't staying for two more days; we almost had summer today, and it's going to be better tomorrow.

[20:48] <frettled> the birches are turning greenish.

[20:49] <TimToady> we noticed a lot more trees budding even in the time we were there

[20:51] <frettled> where did you go?

[20:51] * frettled is always interested in what you touristy guys do when touristing.

[20:53] <TimToady> 1st day, rathus and castle and palace, 2nd day, historical buildings, viking ships, kon tiki, and vigeland sculptures

[20:53] *** rocket_guatemala left
[20:55] <pugs_svn> r26417 | pmurias++ | [re-smop] disabled implicit invocant in signatures, fixed t/lexical_scope.mold and added a failing test to that file

[20:55] <frettled> That's quite a bit in a couple of days.  I hope some of it was worthwhile.

[20:55] *** kate21de joined
[20:57] <pugs_svn> r26418 | pmurias++ | [re-smop] fixed bug in hash bvalue

[20:57] <frettled> Hms, Firefox suddenly doesn't want to render camelia.svg, perhaps because the HTTP header says ISO-8859-1 and the XML encoding is UTF-8?  Or is it just my FF (3.0.9/MacOS X) that's bugging?

[20:58] *** braceta joined
[20:58] <wayland76> frettled: URL?

[20:58] <frettled> wayland76: http://svn.pugscode.org/pugs/misc/camelia.svg

[20:59] <frettled> This works, though: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c7/SVG.svg (UTF-8 + UTF-8)

[21:00] <frettled> I get the same problem in Safari 3 and Opera 9.64, and the Wikimedia version works well.

[21:01] *** af1 joined
[21:01] *** braceta left
[21:01] *** braceta joined
[21:02] <ascent_> frettled: Content-Type.

[21:03] <frettled> ascent_: Yes, as I said, the HTTP header says it's ISO 8859-1, while the document says it's UTF-8.

[21:03] <frettled> That usually causes problems with HTML, apparently it does so with SVG as well.

[21:05] <ascent_> frettled: it's not charset problem... It doesn't display as direct request, because Content-Type is text/plain, not image/svg+xml.

[21:06] <arnsholt> ascent_: I was just typing that up as well =)

[21:06] <frettled> ascent_: ah, that too, then.

[21:06] <ascent_> arnsholt: :)

[21:06] *** Casan joined
[21:06] <frettled> ascent_: I see all sorts of weirdness come out of the latin-1 and UTF-8 problem, so my brain didn't parse "content-type" correctly. :)

[21:07] <arnsholt> In fact, I don't think the charset specification matters for this document, 'cause I don't think it's got any non-ASCII characters

[21:07] * frettled mumbles some obsceneties regarding the UTF-8 three-byte header string that e.g. Adobe Dreamweaver MX thinks it's a good idea to add to the start of all documents, including those in PHP with session handling.

[21:07] <arnsholt> Ah, the BOM. Funfunfun ^^

[21:08] <wayland76> Fails in Seamonkey too

[21:08] <arnsholt> Or is the BOM for UTF-16? It's been a while since I read up on this

[21:08] <frettled> arnsholt: I'm pretty sure it's for UTF-8, as it's not strictly necessary to use it, but is used anyway.

[21:09] <wayland76> Internet Explorer ignores content-type.  That's one reason attacks on it are more likely to succeed

[21:11] <frettled> yet Safari is the easiest to crack

[21:11] <arnsholt> frettled: Wikipedia says that the BOM is intended for UTF-16 and -32 (where byte order actually matters), but occasionally occurs in UTF-8 as well, where it is indeed a three byte sequence

[21:11] <pugs_svn> r26419 | pmurias++ | [re-mildew] uncomment most of CORE (except loading Multi,RoleHOW and EXTERNAL) as it loads in correctly

[21:12] <frettled> arnsholt: I (unfortunately) know this because I'm in the sad position as a sysadm at someone allowing webhotel customers to use PHP.  :)

[21:12] <arnsholt> Please accept my condoleances =)

[21:13] <frettled> It seems like the way to set/remove transparancy for the background of camelia is to go to "page setup" in OpenOffice Draw, then the Background tab.  (caveat lector: I'm checking with NeoOffice 3.0.1)

[21:13] <frettled> arnsholt: thanks.

[21:14] *** ruoso left
[21:18] *** wknight8111 joined
[21:19] <frettled> Anyhoo, Someone􏿽xAE should just add the necessary AddType magic in e.g. a .htaccess file to ensure that .svg is served as the correct MIME type, then.

[21:21] *** szabgab joined
[21:22] <pugs_svn> r26420 | szabgab++ | fix some legacy smartlink syntax

[21:25] *** nihiliad left
[21:32] *** nbrown_ joined
[21:35] *** skids left
[21:42] *** Maghnus joined
[21:44] <pugs_svn> r26421 | szabgab++ | Smart::Links add some documentation

[21:48] *** nbrown left
[21:48] *** nbrown_ is now known as nbrown

[21:53] *** goksie left
[21:59] *** af1 left
[22:00] *** braceta left
[22:06] *** zamolxes joined
[22:06] *** hanekomu_ joined
[22:08] *** Casan left
[22:10] *** braceta joined
[22:11] *** ejs joined
[22:16] *** szabgab left
[22:17] *** km2 left
[22:27] *** kate21de left
[22:29] *** hanekom__ left
[22:34] *** Casan joined
[22:45] *** pmurias left
[22:46] *** exodist left
[22:54] *** skids joined
[22:57] *** M_o_C joined
[22:58] <jeremiah_> .c

[22:58] <phenny> AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'encode' (file "/Users/sbp/web/inamidst.com/www/phenny/tools.py", line 20, in new)

[23:00] *** jonathansizz joined
[23:01] *** zamolxes left
[23:15] *** nbrown left
[23:15] *** jonathansizz left
[23:19] *** frew|wor1 left
[23:23] *** davidad left
[23:24] *** hanekomu_ left
[23:29] *** iblechbot left
[23:29] *** nbrown joined
[23:39] *** amoc joined
[23:40] *** ispy_ left
[23:42] *** km2 joined
[23:47] *** DemoFreak left
[23:55] *** bacek_ joined
[23:57] *** bacek__ left
[23:59] *** [particle]1 left
