[00:56] *** bisectable6 joined
[00:56] *** committable6 joined
[00:56] *** evalable6 joined
[00:57] *** unicodable6 joined
[00:57] *** releasable6 joined
[02:02] *** ilbot3 joined
[02:55] *** ilbot3 joined
[03:48] *** samcv joined
[06:16] *** ilbot3 joined
[06:20] *** brrt joined
[06:22] *** ugexe joined
[06:27] <brrt> good * #moarvm

[06:31] *** ugexe joined
[07:05] *** domidumont joined
[07:10] *** domidumont joined
[07:37] <samcv> good * brrt

[07:39] <brrt> ohai samcv

[07:39] <samcv> i probably don't need to include NFG_CHECK changes to the changelog right

[07:43] <brrt> oh, are you rolling out the release now?

[07:44] <brrt> i was wondering whether we should include the labelling-issue-fix as a cherry-pick

[07:44] <samcv> if you think that should be done i'd do it now

[07:50] *** Ven joined
[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: c0ac87af5f | (Bart Wiegmans)++ | src/jit/label.c

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: Fix labeling off-by-one

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM:

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: The last 'object' label would not be counted as a instruction

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: label (and by implication treated as a basic block label). This would

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: cause the required label not to be setup, which would make try/catch

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: on some frames fail.

[07:52] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/c0ac87af5f

[08:08] *** Ven joined
[08:13] *** Ven joined
[08:17] *** zakharyas joined
[09:33] *** robertle joined
[09:41] *** Ven joined
[09:57] *** Ven joined
[09:58] *** Ven joined
[10:14] *** Geth_ joined
[10:55] *** Ven joined
[10:58] *** Ven_ joined
[11:00] *** brrt joined
[11:56] *** Ven joined
[12:05] *** geospeck joined
[13:46] *** zakharyas joined
[14:23] *** geospeck joined
[14:57] *** brrt joined
[15:11] *** geospeck joined
[15:13] *** geospeck joined
[15:18] <AlexDaniel> samcv: how is it going? :)

[15:25] *** zakharyas joined
[16:01] *** Geth joined
[16:59] *** zakharyas joined
[17:29] *** timotimo joined
[17:36] *** dogbert17 joined
[17:42] *** ilmari joined
[17:42] *** ilmari[m] joined
[17:44] *** [Coke] joined
[17:47] *** domidumont joined
[18:21] *** robertle joined
[18:46] <samcv> back. good. should release in an hour or so

[19:11] *** lizmat joined
[19:12] <AlexDaniel> alright

[19:14] <samcv> AlexDaniel: the extra time was partially me checking some Unicode stuff to make sure no other regressions. i decided that we were good on that front, but I am planning on making some new tests after the release

[19:15] <AlexDaniel> samcv: that's awesome, thanks

[19:15] <samcv> so it seems we need to have at minimum tests for each property value. and i also discovered we had 0 tests for <:LC>

[19:15] <samcv> which is Letter Cased, which combines like Ll Lu and a few other ones. but it does apparently work so that's nice

[19:16] <samcv> i'm thinking we might want a test file that tests both regex and .uniprop as well. since they take different codepaths

[19:16] <samcv> and there have been bugs in one but not the other before

[19:17] <samcv> and we can ensure that the unions like <:L> work for all L* things and LC works for all casey things etc. as well as .uniprop all in one to make sure both are covered and allow us to extend it in the future

[19:18] <samcv> also of note before my changes this last month we didn't return general category "Cn" for any codepoint which is for unassigned. so it's nice that we now respond that

[19:18] <samcv> probably missed it during my grant because no codepoint is explicitly assigned that general category in UnicodeData.txt

[19:25] *** brrt joined
[20:23] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: 56ed28cbbc | (Samantha McVey)++ | docs/ChangeLog

[20:23] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: Update ChangeLog with commits since last release

[20:23] <Geth> ¦ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/56ed28cbbc

[20:29] <lizmat> samcv++

[20:36] <samcv> feel free for people do do better reorganization or make the ones that haven't been clairified (some of the ones with commit numbers) or better categorize

[20:45] <AlexDaniel> samcv: it's WIP, right? looking at “Unsorted and Unmodified commit text” :)

[20:45] <AlexDaniel> ah-ha, just re-read your last message

[20:45] <samcv> yeah it's not final

[20:45] <samcv> i've already gone through a lot of them looking at the commit message and adding to text and adding which function was modified etc

[20:50] <AlexDaniel> I've been wondering if there's any way to make this work faster/easier, but couldn't come up with any solution

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> maybe one way to do it is by asking committers to log their changes, and then just do some finishing touches

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> but in that case it shouldn't be happening in the repo at all, but on the wiki or something

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> and then it can be committed before the release

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> otherwise it's too much pressure

[21:02] <AlexDaniel> yeah, ok, we'll try that

[21:04] <AlexDaniel> (after the release ofc)

[21:40] *** geospeck joined
[22:06] <timotimo> samcv: the first entry in JIT has a surprising "op" in the "middle"

[22:08] <timotimo> i'd write "1LL" instead of "1 LL" for the integer literal fix

[22:28] <lizmat> and another Perl 6 Weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2017/11/20/2017-47-more-tpcia-videos/

[22:40] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: “Open tickets overview” seems to be pointing nowhere

[22:40] <lizmat> oops

[22:40] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: and that's not related to core development I guess?

[22:42] <lizmat> added link + moved to blog posts   # AlexDaniel++

[23:08] *** brrt joined
[23:10] <jnthn> We could just try and encourage people to write really good commit subjects and produce the changelog from git log --oneline :)

[23:10] <jnthn> And anybody who writes "fix bug" gets nominated to do the release :P

[23:11] * jnthn wonders why the weekly is adding Rakudo to talk titles that didn't contain it

[23:12] <jnthn> Even my grant name got twisted

[23:12] <japhb> jnthn: Perl 5 added "Pumpking" at the front too.

[23:14] <japhb> Attempt to prioritize clarity over literal quoting?

[23:16] <ilmari> japhb: we didn't, actually. it was just a proposal by mst

[23:16] <ilmari> http://blogs.perl.org/users/matt_s_trout_mst/2013/02/pumpkin-perl---redux.html and linked posts

[23:16] <japhb> ilmari: jnthn and I meant in the Perl 6 Weekly -- talk and blog post titles were subtly mutated

[23:18] <ilmari> japhb: oh, silly me. when you used "perl 5" as a subject in a sentence I thought you meant someone related to perl 5 did something

[23:18] <japhb> ilmari: Apologies for the confusion.  :-)

[23:41] *** lizmat joined
