[00:01] *** abraxxa left
[00:07] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Date-Names-Perl6 (1.0.0) by 03TBROWDER

[00:14] *** zacts left
[00:16] *** samcv left
[00:18] *** samcv joined
[00:18] *** pecastro left
[00:23] <TreyHarris> I just wrote a lengthy response to "i"'s latest vague complaint about the docs being bad. It's long, but I hope I can refer to it in the future when such "I don't like it!" issues come in. https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2617#issuecomment-462091390

[00:24] *** zacts joined
[00:26] <AlexDaniel> +1 for a TL;DR

[00:28] *** sena_kun left
[00:38] <squashable6> ğŸ• colomon++ wrote a comment on â€œIO::Prompterâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/425#issuecomment-462092898

[00:38] <squashable6> ğŸ•ğŸ•ğŸ•  First contribution by colomon++! â™¥

[00:45] *** w_richard_w joined
[00:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:00] *** zachk left
[01:00] *** lizmat joined
[01:02] *** RobotAI left
[01:12] <leont> $?DISTRIBUTION is documented but if I try to use it I get a "Variable '$?DISTRIBUTION' is not declared. Did you mean 'Distribution'?"

[01:13] <timotimo> perhaps only when invoked from an installed module or something? though how would it compile it if that were the case ...

[01:17] *** zacts left
[01:17] *** obfusk left
[01:18] *** obfusk joined
[01:22] *** mns` left
[01:29] *** ExtraCrispy left
[01:29] *** zacts joined
[01:32] *** Woodi left
[01:34] *** lizmat left
[01:42] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[01:56] <TreyHarris> leont: It looks like %?RESOURCES gives you much the same functionality--as far as letting a module figure out its own install location and look for files relative to it--so perhaps you can use that instead?

[02:00] *** Woodi joined
[02:04] *** markoong left
[02:14] *** molaf left
[02:15] *** reach_satori joined
[02:20] *** w_richard_w left
[02:27] *** molaf joined
[02:34] *** crella joined
[02:42] <crella> Can someone kind to provide a archive of docs.perl6.org? I am from China, and the network connection isn't very good. I tried to use HTTrack, and it downloaded too many data than I thought the site should contain.

[02:43] <crella> By the way, I think tutorials on docs.perl6.org are too complicated so I often visit perl6maven later.

[02:44] <crella> Oh I have seen the github pages of the perl6 docs.

[02:45] <leont> Yeah

[02:47] <crella> To make perl6 scripts work as easy as Excel, it takes me a long time.

[02:48] <leont> It's more reference than tutorial

[02:50] <timotimo> https://docs.perl6.org/perl6.html - this is about 1 MB big and has everything the docs have

[02:50] <masak> crella: it's good to know some things on docs.perl6.org feel too complicated. if you want to point to particular examples, we might work on improving them.

[02:55] <crella> Can I put the module I wrote just in the same directory as the perl6 script and 'use' it on Windows?

[02:56] <crella> I am working to put the same code into a module.  I haven't done it when using perl5. I remembered tha perl5 @INC includes current directory.

[02:57] <timotimo> perl5's @INC had the current directory removed a year or so ago?

[02:57] *** Kaiepi joined
[02:57] <timotimo> perl6 might have never had it, i think?

[02:58] <timotimo> but you can "use lib '.'" or perl6 -I lib ...

[02:58] <crella> OK, just write it in **script start**  use './i-am-the-module.pm6';  ** script stop**

[03:07] <crella> How can I define a global variable in a module so I can 'say' it in another module? I tried 'our $a = 1' but not worked.

[03:11] <vrurg> crella: our $a is export = 1;

[03:12] <vrurg> Otherwise use qualified name: $Module::a

[03:14] <crella> $Module::a works.

[03:20] <crella> File a.pm6 */ module pcom {  sub pp { prompt 'hi';}} /* File e.pl */ use lib '.'; use a; pcom::pp(); /*

[03:20] <crella> How can I write the script so that 'p6 e.pl' shows an 'hi'?

[03:21] <crella> The 'prompt' function is very good that helps me do less.

[03:29] <crella> Ok, I see it on perl6maven and write ' sub pp is export {prompt 'hi';}'

[03:30] *** Cabanossi left
[03:30] <crella> What IDE or editors do you use?

[03:30] <crella> Vscode is a good choice but the animation is low on my laptop

[03:33] <vrurg> crella: I use atom for the reason that vim is extremely slow with perl6 syntax.

[03:42] *** Cabanossi joined
[03:43] <crella> How can I write the shortest code to fill the  @arr[40;5]  all with 0?

[03:45] *** isomorphismes left
[03:46] *** ferreira joined
[03:48] *** crella left
[03:52] <SmokeMachine> m: my @arr = (0 xx 5) xx 40; dd @arr

[03:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«Array @arr = [(0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0), (0, 0, 0, 0, 0),â€¦Â»

[03:52] <SmokeMachine> m: my @arr = (0 xx 5) xx 40; say @arr[15;5]

[03:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«Nilâ¤Â»

[03:53] <SmokeMachine> m: my @arr = (0 xx 5) xx 40; dd @arr[15;3]

[03:53] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«0â¤Â»

[03:54] <SmokeMachine> m: my @arr[40;5] is default(0); dd @arr

[03:54] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤is default on shaped Array not yet implemented. Sorry.â¤at <tmp>:1â¤------> 3my @arr[40;5] is default(0)7â5; dd @arrâ¤    expecting any of:â¤        constraintâ¤Â»

[03:54] <SmokeMachine> :(

[03:55] <SmokeMachine> m: my @arr[40;5] = (0 xx 5) xx 40; dd @arr

[03:55] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«Array element = Array.new(:shape(40, 5), [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [0, 0,â€¦Â»

[03:58] *** zacts left
[04:02] *** crella6 joined
[04:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:16] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:29] *** Cabanossi left
[04:33] *** crella6 left
[04:33] *** Cabanossi joined
[04:36] *** crella6 joined
[04:40] *** kent\n left
[04:41] *** kent\n joined
[05:07] *** Kaiepi left
[05:08] *** Kaiepi joined
[05:09] *** crella6 left
[05:10] *** crella6 joined
[05:35] *** zacts joined
[05:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Amazon-DynamoDB (0.4.0) by 03HANENKAMP

[05:52] *** crella6 left
[05:53] *** crella6 joined
[06:04] *** kst joined
[06:24] *** zacts left
[06:28] *** crella6 left
[06:29] *** crella6 joined
[06:33] *** crella6 left
[06:38] *** crella6 joined
[06:42] *** crella6 left
[06:56] *** crella6 joined
[06:57] *** random_yanek left
[07:06] *** rindolf joined
[07:08] *** crella6 left
[07:08] *** random_yanek joined
[07:09] *** crella6 joined
[07:15] *** molaf left
[07:39] *** jmerelo joined
[07:40] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned Cairo https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/557

[07:43] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Uzu (0.3.4) by 03SACOMO

[07:44] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œCairoâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/557#issuecomment-462111108

[07:47] *** zacts joined
[07:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œCairoâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/557

[07:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œCairoâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/557#issuecomment-462111281

[07:48] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:48] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:56] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œCache::Asyncâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/556

[07:56] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œCache::Asyncâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/556#issuecomment-462111687

[08:01] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned YAML::Parser::LibYAML https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/547

[08:02] *** ufobat___ joined
[08:09] *** yqt joined
[08:12] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned Getopt::Type https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/407

[08:15] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œGetopt::Typeâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/407#issuecomment-462112801

[08:26] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 1b5683848a | (JJ Merelo)++ | META.list

[08:26] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: Releases auth version of GetOpt::Type /cc @tadzik

[08:26] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/1b5683848a

[08:27] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œGetopt::Typeâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/407#issuecomment-462113493

[08:27] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œGetopt::Typeâ€ (fixed): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/407

[08:29] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned File::Find::Duplicates https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/387

[08:30] *** yqt left
[08:36] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œFile::Find::Duplicatesâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/387

[08:36] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œFile::Find::Duplicatesâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/387#issuecomment-462114086

[08:37] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œYAML::Parser::LibYAMLâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/547

[08:46] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[08:46] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ5 hours. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[08:46] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/1213a0c79d56bc1c1247148f76ad4282

[08:57] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œAI::Agentâ€ (broken beyond repair): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/321

[08:57] <squashable6> ğŸ• viklund++ wrote a comment on â€œNovemberâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/487#issuecomment-462115334

[08:57] <squashable6> ğŸ•ğŸ•ğŸ•  First contribution by viklund++! â™¥

[08:58] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œAI::Agentâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/321#issuecomment-462115366

[08:59] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned API::USNavalObservatory https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/322

[09:03] *** ravenousmoose joined
[09:03] *** andrzejku_ joined
[09:04] *** ravenousmoose left
[09:09] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œAPI::USNavalObservatoryâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/322#issuecomment-462116019

[09:09] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œAPI::USNavalObservatoryâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/322

[09:13] *** crella6 left
[09:14] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œAlgorithm::BloomFilterâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/327

[09:14] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œAlgorithm::BloomFilterâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/327#issuecomment-462116323

[09:15] *** ravenousmoose joined
[09:15] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œp6lertâ€ (fixed): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552

[09:15] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œp6lertâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552#issuecomment-462116365

[09:18] *** crella6 joined
[09:20] *** zacts left
[09:25] *** crella6 left
[09:27] *** crella6 joined
[09:37] *** sena_kun joined
[09:38] *** abraxxa joined
[09:40] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œIni::Storageâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/432

[09:41] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œIni::Storageâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/432#issuecomment-462117849

[09:43] *** crella6 left
[09:44] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 9950378b46 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/variables.pod6

[09:44] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/variables

[09:44] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Indexes supersede closes #2618

[09:44] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/9950378b46

[09:44] <sena_kun> .seen araraloren

[09:44] <yoleaux> I saw araraloren 27 Jan 2019 05:34Z in #perl6: <araraloren> https://gist.github.com/araraloren/cfb7d7b694be76e0bbe53491df573d3a/revisions

[09:49] *** abraxxa left
[09:58] *** lizmat joined
[09:58] *** andrzejku_ left
[10:00] *** crella6 joined
[10:01] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ unlabeled issue â€œp6lertâ€ (fixed): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552

[10:01] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œp6lertâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552#issuecomment-462119038

[10:02] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œp6lertâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552#issuecomment-462119102

[10:03] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: status

[10:03] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ3 hours. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[10:03] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/b10fe1e6ff0c0629630c69558202b7ec

[10:03] <squashable6> ğŸ• ufobat++ wrote a comment on â€œIoCâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/439#issuecomment-462119161

[10:06] <squashable6> ğŸ• Altai-man++ wrote a comment on â€œMsgPackâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/476#issuecomment-462119334

[10:06] <squashable6> ğŸ• Altai-man++ labeled issue â€œMsgPackâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/476

[10:07] <squashable6> ğŸ• Altai-man++ wrote a comment on â€œNet::Curlâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/479#issuecomment-462119374

[10:07] <squashable6> ğŸ• Altai-man++ labeled issue â€œNet::Curlâ€ (native dependency): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/479

[10:07] <squashable6> ğŸ• Altai-man++ labeled issue â€œNet::Curlâ€ (works for me): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/479

[10:08] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œFile::Find::Duplicatesâ€ (fixed): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/387

[10:09] *** leszekdubiel joined
[10:10] <leszekdubiel> I think it is hard to find per6 intro from main web page... 

[10:10] <leszekdubiel> I click Documentation, then the first option is "Language Ref & Tutorials", I go there... and it's nothing for begginers. 

[10:12] <timotimo> hm, how to make it clearer that Resources is where the good stuff is?

[10:12] <leszekdubiel> I have had to google... and I found perl6intro.com. But that link is hidden in "comprehensive list of Perl 6 resources"... 

[10:12] <leszekdubiel> I suggest to move perl6intro.com linkt to the top of section under Documentation on this page: https://docs.perl6.org/

[10:12] <timotimo> the "brief introduction" also links to "a number of useful resources" for that very page

[10:13] <leszekdubiel> Ok... I am a novice to perl6... go to Documentation, then Tutorials, then Brief Introduction... and what I see...

[10:14] <leszekdubiel> annotated programming example -- excellent! 

[10:14] <leszekdubiel> what next? containers? I'm not interested now... Roles? I don't need them... later... 

[10:14] <leszekdubiel> so where to go next? well... i have to google  more documentation... 

[10:15] <timotimo> the "number of useful resources" link could be moved further up on the Brief Introduction page and given a bit more text?

[10:15] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! IoC (0.0.4) by 03UFOBAT

[10:15] <leszekdubiel> and after a few days I have found  perl6intro.com and that cute page https://github.com/perlpilot/perl6-docs/blob/master/intro/p6-regex-intro.pod  -- regex itroduction 

[10:18] <leszekdubiel> this is not criticism, but I suggest to put some visible links for novices ...   otherwise novices get into advanced Reference

[10:18] <timotimo> i think it's valuable input!

[10:19] *** crella6 left
[10:19] <leszekdubiel> another example --  google     "perl6 split" ...   and "perl split" 

[10:20] <leszekdubiel> on google "perl split"  i go directly to page:     https://perldoc.perl.org/functions/split.html     and I read for 2 minutes and I know how to use

[10:20] <leszekdubiel> after googling   "perl6 split"   i go to page    https://docs.perl6.org/routine/split   ... and this is okey 

[10:22] <leszekdubiel> but what I seeeee?     class Cool? I don't know what cool is....     when I read lines from file I use Cool or not? I don't know...   I scroll below and see examples -- they are good. 

[10:22] <leszekdubiel> But I have to read until middle of the page to find that "Str" has function split ... now I am happy because I'm processing string 

[10:23] <leszekdubiel> Maybe Class Str should appear at the top .... 

[10:23] *** Aceeri__ joined
[10:24] <leszekdubiel> Or maybe there should be some simple examples at the top of the page on split function? I think no novice would understand: multi sub    split(  Str:D $delimiter, Str(Cool) $input, $limit = Inf, :$k, :$v, :$kv, :$p, :$skip-empty)  

[10:25] <leszekdubiel> and novices look how to split string ... 

[10:25] *** mns` joined
[10:25] <leszekdubiel> thank you for reading ... :) :) 

[10:25] <timotimo> it is crucially important for documentation readers to understand signatures - which is why it's part of the brief introduction page

[10:26] <timotimo> i consider this a weakness of the docs that i don't know how to fix

[10:26] <timotimo> but the thought that a beginner would skip the part from class Cool is a new one

[10:29] *** crella6 joined
[10:29] *** andrzejku_ joined
[10:29] *** leszekdubiel left
[10:30] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2577#issuecomment-458022602

[10:30] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: TL;DR â€œSignaturesâ€ link in the navbar instead of â€œProgramsâ€

[10:30] <timotimo> oh, interesting

[10:31] <timotimo> you know we can totally put a link from every "bunch of signatures" box to the signatures doc

[10:31] <timotimo> or, even better, have an automated thingie that can expand signatures to a human-readable description

[10:34] <timotimo> i see that's already in your comment!

[10:34] *** woolfy left
[10:34] <jmerelo> Can someone synthesize what leszekdubiel has said in an issue? /cc timotimo AlexDaniel 

[10:35] *** lizmat left
[10:35] <sena_kun> timotimo, I think idea of automatic signature explanation is not new, at least I saw a ticket somewhere.

[10:35] <sena_kun> let me search for it...

[10:43] <sena_kun> ...and I cannot find it now, huh.

[10:43] <andrzejku_> .seen loren

[10:43] <yoleaux> I saw loren 8 Jul 2016 13:51Z in #perl6: <loren> e, ^_^ .. haha don't mind

[10:43] <andrzejku_> sena_kun, araraloren is also loren

[10:44] <sena_kun> andrzejku_, yup, but 2016 vs 2019 is something to consider. :S

[10:46] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œFrinfonâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/398

[10:47] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œFrinfonâ€ (broken beyond repair): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/398

[10:47] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œFrinfonâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/398#issuecomment-462121797

[10:47] *** molaf joined
[10:48] *** crella6 left
[10:49] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œCommonMarkâ€ (native dependency): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/357

[10:51] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œAstro::Sunriseâ€ (deprecated module): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/341

[10:51] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œAstro::Sunriseâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/341#issuecomment-462122105

[10:52] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œBinary::Structuredâ€ (PR sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/347

[10:52] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œBinary::Structuredâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/347#issuecomment-462122139

[10:54] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œLog::Minimalâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/456

[10:54] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œLog::Minimalâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/456#issuecomment-462122252

[10:57] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ labeled issue â€œLingua::Numberâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/453

[10:57] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œLingua::Numberâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/453#issuecomment-462122465

[11:02] *** lizmat joined
[11:03] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned JSON::WebToken https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/441

[11:05] *** leszekdubiel joined
[11:06] <squashable6> ğŸ• masak++ wrote a comment on â€œNovemberâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/487#issuecomment-462123007

[11:06] *** andrzejku_ left
[11:10] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œNovemberâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/487#issuecomment-462123287

[11:13] *** woolfy joined
[11:14] *** leszekdubiel left
[11:17] *** pecastro joined
[11:22] <ufobat___> what is thet difference between put and say?

[11:22] <jmerelo> ufobat___: say uses gist, put uses .Str

[11:22] <ufobat___> AH!

[11:23] <ufobat___> documentation sais "machine readable format" which was quite confusing to me

[11:23] <jmerelo> m: class Foo { method gist { "Gist" }; method Str {"Str"}}; my $foo = Foo.new; $foo.say; $foo.put

[11:23] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«Gistâ¤Strâ¤Â»

[11:23] <jmerelo> ufobat___: gist should be a machine readable format, right. By convention. Maybe create an issue?

[11:23] <ufobat___> okay

[11:26] *** woolfy left
[11:27] *** woolfy joined
[11:27] <ufobat___> jmerelo, wouldn't be .perl better for a "maschine readable" format

[11:27] <timotimo> um, isn't gist for humans?

[11:27] <timotimo> yeah

[11:28] <jmerelo> ufobat___: ah, right.

[11:28] <ufobat___> anyway the point is, its not in the docs

[11:28] <jmerelo> ufobat___: so it's not that it's not clear, it's that it's wrong.

[11:28] <jmerelo> ufobat___: I'm sure it's somewhere there... But issue it anyway and I'll try to clarify.

[11:29] *** w17t joined
[11:29] <ufobat___> https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2619

[11:31] *** wi15ht left
[11:31] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:31] <jmerelo> ufobat___++

[11:31] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:31] *** pmurias joined
[11:32] <pmurias> timotimo: a partial high tech solution to understanding signatures is that we should have generated tooltips on them

[11:32] <ufobat___> btw i am deeply impressed on how much love and work you donate to the ecosystem for the bitunrot thingy!!

[11:32] <pmurias> timotimo: so a beginner could hover on them and have all the arcane syntax explained

[11:33] *** ravenousmoose left
[11:33] <jmerelo> ufobat___: I am too. I think the key is that it involves lots of personal projects; and they are pinged from the issue. That makes people actually feel engaged and that they have something at stake.

[11:36] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œp6lertâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552#issuecomment-462124896

[11:37] *** leszekdubiel joined
[11:40] <Xliff_> Anyone seen this before: "Incompatible MROs in P6opaque rebless for types Perl6::Metamodel::CurriedRoleHOW and Stash"

[11:41] <masak> timotimo: Rakudo at some point also had '.' in @*INC

[11:41] <Xliff_> ^^ Is that internal rakudo error? If so, I will report it.

[11:41] <Xliff_> --ll-exception does not report a singla stack within my code.

[11:42] *** crella6 joined
[11:42] <sena_kun> Xliff_, it seems very much so, please golf and report. :)

[11:42] *** domidumont joined
[11:42] <masak> actually, I meant to ask about that on the channel the other day -- given that both Perl 5 and Perl 6 (a) thought it a good idea to have '.' in the lib path, and (b) got rid of it for security reasons... what exactly *is* the attack vector being pictured here?

[11:42] <Xliff_> sena_kun: No golf.Â I have no idea how I triggered it. I will start report and work on golf, later.

[11:51] *** woolfy left
[11:53] *** woolfy joined
[11:54] <Xliff_> Bug is gone now. Probably related to a bad compile?!

[11:54] <Xliff_> That's.... LTA

[11:55] *** leszekdubiel left
[11:55] <El_Che> masak: code run from shared or writable filesystems like /tmp or /var/tmp?

[11:57] <masak> El_Che: ah, so you mean someone carefully seeds a /tmp directory with modules that are known to be used in some script, and then gains control?

[11:58] <El_Che> yes

[11:58] <masak> is that still an issue if the '.' comes last in the list?

[11:59] <El_Che> maybe with required?

[11:59] <El_Che> still, far fetched

[12:00] <El_Che> next to /tmp, maybe thinking of things like /var/www /cgi and the like

[12:01] <El_Che> I am pretty sure the p5 dicussion must have been documented somewheren

[12:01] <El_Che> And Perl 5 being rather consevative I would be surprised if they didn't have a good reason. Maybe leont knows more.

[12:03] <El_Che> (addition: it's not uncommon for scripts that run as "nobody" to be started from common sticky-bitted directories)

[12:05] <pmurias> masak: in Perl 6 the modules from . where taken *first*

[12:06] <pmurias> due to a bug

[12:06] *** abraxxa joined
[12:07] <pmurias> masak: in Perl 5 some modules have optional dependencies

[12:07] <masak> oh. oh! :/

[12:07] <El_Che> pmurias: we don't have something similar with require?

[12:08] <pmurias> El_Che: yes, we have loading of stuff at runtime too

[12:10] <pmurias> masak: so running an Perl 5 script with an optional unmet dependency in say an unpacked .tar.gz directory you downloaded from somewhere could still run evil code

[12:11] <masak> right

[12:12] <masak> something like "holes" in the set of available modules

[12:15] <Geth> Â¦ doc: c46235e8c3 | (Tom Browder)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/hashmap.pod6

[12:15] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/hashmap

[12:15] <Geth> Â¦ doc: add a warning note

[12:15] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/c46235e8c3

[12:16] <pmurias> masak: yeah stuff like checking if an ::XS variant is present (and if it's not installed a nefarious one might be loaded from disk)

[12:17] <pmurias> masak: way less serious then the bug in Rakudo I found but still potentially dangerous

[12:23] <tbrowder>  any reason we canâ€™t read META6.json with Hjson? test::META errors are difficult to decipher with, e.g., a spurious comma.

[12:28] <masak> m: say &infix:<+>

[12:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«&infix:<+>â¤Â»

[12:28] <masak> m: say &infix:<?? !!>

[12:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤Undeclared routine:â¤    infix:<?? !!> used at line 1. Did you mean 'infix:<?^>', 'infix:<!=>', 'infix:<?|>', 'infix:<?&>'?â¤â¤Â»

[12:28] <masak> m: say &infix:<??!!>

[12:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤Prefix ! requires an argument, but no valid term foundâ¤at <tmp>:1â¤------> 3??!!7â5<EOL>â¤    expecting any of:â¤        prefixâ¤Â»

[12:29] *** ravenousmoose joined
[12:29] <masak> what's the name of the ?? !! operator?

[12:30] <jmerelo> masak: ternary operator, I think.

[12:31] <jmerelo> masak: but it's probably defined as two different operators. There's no such thing as a hyper-circumfix-pre-post-fix operator

[12:31] <masak> jmerelo: thanks, but not what I was fishing for :)

[12:31] <masak> what's the *variable binding*, like &infix:<+> above?

[12:32] <jmerelo> m: say &infix:<??>

[12:32] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤Undeclared routine:â¤    infix:<??> used at line 1. Did you mean 'infix:<âˆ˜>', 'infix:<^^>', 'infix:<%>', 'infix:<~~>', 'infix:<gt>'?â¤â¤Â»

[12:32] <jmerelo> m: say &circumfix:<?? !!>

[12:32] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤Undeclared routine:â¤    circumfix:<?? !!> used at line 1. Did you mean 'circumfix:<:{ }>', 'circumfix:<[ ]>', 'circumfix:<{ }>'?â¤â¤Â»

[12:32] <jmerelo> m: say &postfix:<?? !!>

[12:32] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤Undeclared routine:â¤    postfix:<?? !!> used at line 1. Did you mean 'postfix:<âš›-->', 'postfix:<++>', 'postfix:<â¿>', 'postfix:<i>', 'postfix:<âš›++>'?â¤â¤Â»

[12:32] <masak> jmerelo: (in Rakudo's Grammar.nqp, it *is* an infix, called infix:sym<?? !!>)

[12:33] <masak> (it's just a very weirdly parsed infix, with variable content between its starter ?? and its stopper !!) :P

[12:33] <jmerelo> masak: Ah, OK. Well, what do I know... And also behind and after. It's a post-in-prefix

[12:34] <masak> no, not really. it's an infix. in `A ?? B !! C`, it occurs in-between A and C.

[12:35] <masak> anyway, the answer to my question seems to be "there is no such sub exposed"

[12:35] <masak> if it were exposed, what *would* it be called? :)

[12:36] <jmerelo> masak: again, ternary, I guess: https://docs.perl6.org/language/operators#index-entry-operator_ternary

[12:36] <masak> jmerelo: &infix:<ternary> ?

[12:38] <jmerelo> masak: I can't think of anything else...

[12:39] *** markoong joined
[12:41] <squashable6> ğŸ• masak++ wrote a comment on â€œNovemberâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/487#issuecomment-462129407

[12:42] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[12:42] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ1 hour. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[12:42] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/ee8021d8f8848ac20661c6f76175be3c

[12:46] <thundergnat> m: say &infix_circumfix:<??!!>; #maybe?

[12:46] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«===SORRY!===â¤Cannot find method 'infix_circumfix' on object of type Perl6::Grammarâ¤Â»

[12:46] <thundergnat> nope

[12:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œPod::PerlTricksâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/504#issuecomment-462129897

[12:48] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Date-Names-Perl6 (1.0.2) by 03TBROWDER

[12:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œPod::PerlTricksâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/504

[12:49] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œp6lertâ€ (works for me): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/552

[12:50] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem-unbitrot: JJ self-assigned HTTP::Server::Threaded https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/419

[12:53] *** Aceeri__ left
[12:53] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œAPI::USNavalObservatoryâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/322#issuecomment-462130274

[12:56] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œHTTP::Server::Threadedâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/419

[12:57] *** lucasb joined
[12:57] *** dogbert2_ left
[12:58] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[12:58] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ1 hour. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[12:58] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/8c22330f2005fbc54842a6e35fd8357a

[13:01] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œHTTP::Server::Asyncâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/416#issuecomment-462130898

[13:04] *** Sgeo__ left
[13:04] *** Sgeo__ joined
[13:05] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œHTTP::Server::Asyncâ€ (works for me): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/416

[13:06] *** pmurias left
[13:08] <masak> m: say &infix:<&&>

[13:08] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«&infix:<&&>â¤Â»

[13:09] <masak> m: sub f1 { say "one"; 1 }; sub f2 { say "two"; 2 }; say infix:<&&>(f1(), f2())

[13:09] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«oneâ¤twoâ¤2â¤Â»

[13:10] <masak> TimToady: `&&` is exposed as a callable 2-arg sub. should `?? !!` be exposed as a callable 3-arg sub?

[13:11] <masak> TimToady: if so, what should it be called? :)

[13:16] <tyil> ternary-if?

[13:18] <tyil> or `if-else`, first arg being the condition, 2nd arg being the statement in case it's true, 3rd arg being the statement in case it's false

[13:19] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œHTTP::Server::Async::Plugins::Router::Simpleâ€ (broken beyond repair): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/417

[13:20] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œHTTP::Server::Async::Plugins::Router::Simpleâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/417#issuecomment-462132333

[13:22] <masak> tyil: it's similar to jmerelo++'s suggestion above.

[13:23] <masak> tyil: thing is, the sub is usually called something with the symbols themselves. but `infix:<?? !!>` is an illegal name, since infixes can't have that space there. only circumfixes and postcircumfixes get to have a space.

[13:23] <tyil> hmm

[13:24] <tyil> would it somehow work having a ?? and a !! function?

[13:29] <masak> no, they are definitely one thing, not two

[13:30] <masak> it's definitely one of the weirdest operators, ever. but it's also quite, what's the word, entrenched.

[13:31] <masak> even though it's practically the same, I don't think Perl 6 users (or people in general) would be as happy with a macro `cond(a, b, c)`

[13:34] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Date-Names-Perl6 (1.0.3) by 03TBROWDER

[13:38] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œHTTP::Server::Asyncâ€ (issue sent): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/416

[13:38] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ unlabeled issue â€œHTTP::Server::Asyncâ€ (works for me): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/416

[13:38] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œHTTP::Server::Asyncâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/416#issuecomment-462133670

[13:41] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œHTTP::Server::Threadedâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/419#issuecomment-462133815

[13:41] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ labeled issue â€œHTTP::Server::Threadedâ€ (broken beyond repair): https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/419

[13:45] *** dct joined
[13:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• titsuki++ wrote a comment on â€œMeCabâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/471#issuecomment-462134340

[13:49] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[13:49] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event is in 10 minutes. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[13:49] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/7a5f693c5d535d19a41684423045b07c

[13:50] <squashable6> ğŸ• jonathanstowe++ wrote a comment on â€œHTTP::Server::Threadedâ€: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/419#issuecomment-462134557

[13:51] *** reach_satori_ joined
[13:52] *** dct left
[13:52] *** dct joined
[13:52] *** jmerelo left
[13:54] *** reach_satori left
[14:06] <daxim> m: start { die }; say 'ok'

[14:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«okâ¤Â»

[14:07] *** pmurias joined
[14:08] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: status

[14:08] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Next SQUASHathon in 18 days and â‰ˆ21 hours (2019-03-02 UTC-14âŒUTC+12). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[14:08] <timotimo> m: start { die }; sleep 2; say 'ok'

[14:08] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«Unhandled exception in code scheduled on thread 4â¤Diedâ¤  in block  at <tmp> line 1â¤â¤Â»

[14:08] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: log 2019-02-09

[14:08] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/97e48cd53ee6983a046a2769b9f5f5c2

[14:09] <AlexDaniel> 37 contributors

[14:10] *** dct left
[14:20] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! MeCab (0.0.12) by 03TITSUKI

[14:25] *** kerrhau left
[14:27] *** crella6 left
[14:36] *** dct joined
[14:36] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 8d1a4445f1 | cygx++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[14:36] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: Add Image::RGBA

[14:36] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 

[14:36] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: See https://github.com/cygx/p6-image-rgba

[14:36] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/8d1a4445f1

[14:47] *** saki joined
[14:47] *** saki left
[14:50] *** jeromelanteri joined
[14:57] *** saki joined
[15:06] *** crella joined
[15:06] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[15:06] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[15:09] *** molaf left
[15:10] *** jeromelanteri left
[15:11] *** dct left
[15:16] *** lucasb left
[15:17] *** crella left
[15:23] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:23] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:43] *** ravenousmoose joined
[15:46] *** Ven`` joined
[16:00] *** lizmat left
[16:02] *** kerrhau joined
[16:08] *** zakharyas joined
[16:13] *** molaf joined
[16:32] *** jmerelo joined
[16:37] *** random_yanek left
[16:40] *** ufobat_ joined
[16:41] <jmerelo> squashable6: STATUS

[16:41] <squashable6> jmerelo, I cannot recognize this command. See wiki for some examples: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Squashable

[16:41] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[16:41] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 18 days and â‰ˆ19 hours (2019-03-02 UTC-14âŒUTC+12). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[16:41] *** random_yanek joined
[16:41] *** random_yanek left
[16:44] *** ufobat___ left
[16:44] *** random_yanek joined
[16:52] *** patrickb joined
[16:54] <ufobat_> i've got a couple of multi subs with the same name. is there a way to execute a hook before one of those gets executed (for logging purposes)

[16:55] <jmerelo> ufobat_: you can use the proto and whateverCode

[16:56] <ufobat_> but for proto i need to have common parameters?

[16:57] <jmerelo> ufobat_: or use |

[16:57] <jmerelo> for proto you just need the common name in principle.

[16:57] <leont> Exactly

[16:58] <ufobat_> m: proto a($a) { say "data: ", $a.perl; * }; multi sub a(Int $a) { say "Int" }; multi sub a(Str $a) {say "Str" }; a(1)

[16:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«data: 1â¤Â»

[16:58] <ufobat_> could you fix that for me?

[16:58] <timotimo> i think it has to be {*}

[16:58] <timotimo> m: proto a($a) { say "data: ", $a.perl; {*} }; multi sub a(Int $a) { say "Int" }; multi sub a(Str $a) {say "Str" }; a(1)

[16:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«data: 1â¤Intâ¤Â»

[16:59] <leont> Yeah

[16:59] <ufobat_> thanks!

[17:00] <ufobat_> why does this work: proto a($a) {*}

[17:00] <leont> It's only a star when that's the whole content of the sub, conceptually all multi's have a proto a(|) { * }

[17:00] *** saki left
[17:00] <leont> Because huffmanization, I'd assume

[17:00] <ufobat_> i see

[17:00] <ufobat_> okay thanks!

[17:00] <jmerelo> ufobat_: a single star is just Whatever; a braced star is WhateverCode

[17:00] <timotimo> proto a($a) {*} also has {*} in it :P

[17:01] <timotimo> m: say {*}.WHAT

[17:01] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤{*} may only appear in protoâ¤at <tmp>:1â¤------> 3say {*}7â5.WHATâ¤    expecting any of:â¤        argument listâ¤        horizontal whitespaceâ¤        termâ¤Â»

[17:01] <timotimo> m: say { * }.WHAT

[17:01] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«(Block)â¤Â»

[17:01] <timotimo> jmerelo: it's not a whatevercode though

[17:01] <jmerelo> so {*} above is WhateverCode; but anything besides it makes it a lonestar.

[17:01] <jmerelo> timotimo: is it not?

[17:02] <timotimo> {*} is just not allowed

[17:02] <jmerelo> timotimo: ah, OK.

[17:08] *** Guest22118 left
[17:08] *** Guest22118 joined
[17:08] *** Guest22118 left
[17:08] *** Guest22118 joined
[17:09] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 0c89d2a2d4 | (Juan JuliÃ¡n Merelo GuervÃ³s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[17:09] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: Updates URL

[17:09] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 

[17:09] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: Although for the time being there's a redirection.

[17:09] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/0c89d2a2d4

[17:10] *** Guest22118 is now known as hexagon

[17:14] *** lizmat joined
[17:16] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 362878b2d9 | (Jonathan Stowe)++ | META.list

[17:16] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: Move http server

[17:16] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/362878b2d9

[17:20] *** zacts joined
[17:22] *** reach_satori_ left
[17:29] *** ufobat_ left
[17:32] *** dct joined
[17:34] <jmerelo> .tell AlexDaniel I got the gist from a few minutes after closure, but if you have better logs, give them to me to decide on the winner.

[17:34] <yoleaux> jmerelo: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[17:35] <AlexDaniel> .

[17:35] <yoleaux> 17:34Z <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I got the gist from a few minutes after closure, but if you have better logs, give them to me to decide on the winner.

[17:35] <jmerelo> Hi, AlexDaniel 

[17:35] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: big success this time, right?

[17:35] <AlexDaniel> I'd say so, yes

[17:35] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: what gist are we talking about?

[17:35] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: there's already a link to it in the table

[17:35] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: https://gist.github.com/Whateverable/8c22330f2005fbc54842a6e35fd8357a

[17:36] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2019-02-10#l429

[17:36] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: help

[17:36] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Available commands: status, log, quiet, loud # See wiki for more examples: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Squashable

[17:36] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: also: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Squashable#status-of-a-previous-event

[17:36] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: gotcha

[17:37] *** ufobat_ joined
[17:37] *** tyil left
[17:39] *** abraxxa left
[17:41] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: ?? !! Is hardcoded on the grammar

[17:45] *** Ven`` left
[17:45] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: a bunch of issues are being closed right now

[17:45] <tony-o> are the guys talking abOUYT THE http::server crap on github in here?

[17:45] <AlexDaniel> xD

[17:47] <tony-o> ::threaded was a temp fix for a problem in moar that was fixed a couple of years ago and shouldn't be used

[17:47] <tony-o> http::server was released and it was moved to where it was as part of a consolidation effort with ::async and re:never released, i likely forgot to update the META with it

[17:48] <tony-o> there was also a lot of argument over the name because it was the first double booking of a name but with different auths we had in the ecosystem

[17:48] <jmerelo> tony-o: at least me...

[17:48] <tony-o> so, could also be someone else changed it to fix that problem

[17:48] <tony-o> "problem"

[17:48] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: great

[17:49] *** ravenousmoose left
[17:49] <tony-o> ::async isn't something i have stayed up to date with since i moved it but can take a look at compilation issues if we have them

[17:49] <jmerelo> tony-o: the main problem is it's using a "register" method which I was unable to find anywhere else.

[17:49] <jmerelo> tony-o: the problems are described in the issue

[17:50] <jmerelo> tony-o: but a new problem is that http::server using http::server as a name is creating a whole lot of problems by itself.

[17:50] <tony-o> which issue are you referring to?

[17:50] <jmerelo> tony-o: let me see

[17:51] <jmerelo> tony-o: https://github.com/perl6/perl6-http-server-async/issues/33

[17:51] <jmerelo> tony-o: wait, not that one

[17:51] <AlexDaniel> uhhh this one https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot/issues/571

[17:51] <AlexDaniel> â€œchars requires a concrete string, but got nullâ€

[17:51] *** tyil joined
[17:52] <jmerelo> tony-o: so eventually I didn't raise an issue, but https://github.com/tony-o/perl6-http-server-async-plugins-router-simple/blob/master/lib/HTTP/Server/Async/Plugins/Router/Simple.pm6 fails because "register" does not exist.

[17:54] <tony-o> ahh, i believe that's because the method changed to `middleware`

[17:56] <tony-o> obviously cannot find HTTP::Server::Async :p

[17:57] <jmerelo> tony-o: so, can you help fixing the issues there? And, while you're at that, can you contribute to change of name? https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/perl6-http-server/issues

[17:58] <tony-o> can you put the h-s-a stuff back into the ecosystem?

[17:58] <tony-o> also, yes

[17:58] <jmerelo> tony-o: was it taken off? Was it me?

[17:58] <tony-o> why are we changing the name of HTTP::Server ?

[17:58] <AlexDaniel> .oO( Deprecated::HTTP::Server ? )

[17:59] <jmerelo> tony-o: several reason. First, there are other http::responses out there. Second, http::server contains http::server _and_ http::response _and_ http::request. Third, it's a role, so it might be better to call it http::server::role

[18:00] <jmerelo> tony-o: and the whole thing changed to HTTP::Roles or Roles::HTTP Hum, maybe not. I don't know.

[18:00] *** markoong left
[18:01] <jmerelo> tony-o: Or maybe this https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/perl6-http-server/issues

[18:01] <tony-o> i'm moving it to same but with ::Role

[18:01] *** markoong joined
[18:01] *** dct left
[18:01] <jmerelo> tony-o: OK. You got the commit bit in that repo, right?

[18:03] *** ravenousmoose joined
[18:05] <tony-o> https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/perl6-http-server/pull/7/files

[18:05] <jmerelo> tony-o: meanwhile, HTTP::Server::Async is still in the ecosystem: https://modules.perl6.org/search/?q=http+server

[18:05] <tony-o> i'm working on fixing all the way up the chain

[18:05] <jmerelo> tony-o: brilliant! Thanks!

[18:10] <tony-o> https://github.com/perl6/perl6-http-server-async/pull/34

[18:11] <AlexDaniel> weekly: Thanks to all 37 contributors who participated in the squashathon. Special thanks to module authors who promtply replied to issues. (No winner announced yet)

[18:11] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[18:12] *** zacts left
[18:12] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: working on it. I think I'm going to release a module for doing that and be done with it.

[18:14] *** zacts joined
[18:20] <Geth> Â¦ perl6-lwp-simple: 9e7c424d9b | (JJ Merelo)++ | README.md

[18:20] <Geth> Â¦ perl6-lwp-simple: Adds some docs, refs #34

[18:20] <Geth> Â¦ perl6-lwp-simple: review: https://github.com/perl6/perl6-lwp-simple/commit/9e7c424d9b

[18:30] *** jme` left
[18:36] *** w17t left
[18:37] *** dct joined
[18:40] *** pmurias left
[18:42] *** ravenousmoose left
[18:44] <tony-o> jmerelo: https://github.com/tony-o/perl6-http-server-async-plugins-router-simple <- is fixed

[18:44] <jmerelo> tony-o++ :-)

[18:48] *** dct left
[18:54] *** yqt joined
[18:55] <tony-o> fix for #33 on H:S:A pushed https://github.com/perl6/perl6-http-server-async/issues/33

[18:55] <tony-o> i'm going to fuck off again for a little while and read :-)

[19:01] *** jme` joined
[19:02] *** discord6 left
[19:03] *** zacts left
[19:06] *** discord6 joined
[19:06] *** cpan-p6_ joined
[19:09] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: sorry, working on what?

[19:10] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: working on this: https://github.com/JJ/p6-app-squashathons/blob/master/resource/data/squashathon-Feb-2019.csv

[19:10] <jmerelo> And since we are not eligible...

[19:11] <jmerelo> ... wait for it ...

[19:11] <jmerelo> ... the winner is ...

[19:11] <jmerelo> ... keep waiting ...

[19:11] <jmerelo> wait, I'm not sure about the nick

[19:11] <jmerelo> .seen gellyfish

[19:11] <yoleaux> I haven't seen gellyfish around.

[19:11] <jmerelo> .seen jonathanstowe

[19:11] <yoleaux> I haven't seen jonathanstowe around.

[19:12] <jmerelo> ... well, don't wait any more. The winner is Jonathan Stowe, whatever is his nick here

[19:12] <tony-o> is that not jnthn ?

[19:12] <jmerelo> tony-o: no, that's Jonathan Worthington

[19:12] <jmerelo> .seen jstowe

[19:12] <yoleaux> I haven't seen jstowe around.

[19:12] <tony-o> err

[19:13] <tony-o> yea

[19:13] <mst> .seen rabidgravy

[19:13] <yoleaux> I saw RabidGravy 17 Dec 2017 01:40Z in #perl6: <RabidGravy> that's https://perl6advent.wordpress.com/2017/12/17/something-about-messaging-but-i-couldnt-think-of-a-snappier-title/ if you want to get in early

[19:13] <jmerelo> mst: thanks!

[19:14] <jmerelo> not around a lot, apparently.

[19:14] <jmerelo> will use Twitter

[19:14] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:14] <tony-o> rabidgracy

[19:14] <tony-o> gravy

[19:14] <tony-o> ah, mst too fast

[19:14] <mst> looks like he /quit shortly after saying that and hasn't logged back in since

[19:15] *** ravenousmoose joined
[19:20] *** abraxxa joined
[19:30] <AlexDaniel> weekly: Winner: Jonathan Stowe (https://github.com/jonathanstowe / irc: RabidGravy)

[19:30] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[19:31] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: who's â€œgâ€ in that list?

[19:32] <sena_kun> it sounds like the script cuts nicknames if not alphanum char is encountered

[19:32] <sena_kun> as in, `man` is, probably, `Altai-man`, and `g` is probably `*-g` or something in this area. :)

[19:33] <AlexDaniel> haha

[19:33] <AlexDaniel> but the number of contributors is correct

[19:33] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: Ah, OK.

[19:33] <jmerelo> Will fix that

[19:37] *** zacts joined
[19:39] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: changed also URL: https://github.com/JJ/p6-app-squashathons/blob/master/resources/data/squashathon-Feb-2019.csv

[19:43] <AlexDaniel> cool

[19:43] *** random_yanek left
[19:43] <AlexDaniel> weekly: Still looking for a new release manager!

[19:43] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[19:43] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: 502 total contributions.

[19:44] <avuserow> it's unfortunate that I cannot begin my code with "use v6; use v6.c;" any longer. the seemingly-redundant "use v6;" at the beginning helped Perl 5 give a good error message when importing it and now I can't do that :(

[19:46] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: de7f19808f | (Juan JuliÃ¡n Merelo GuervÃ³s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[19:46] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: Adds App::Squashathons

[19:46] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: 

[19:46] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: A module and script for processing squashathon logs.

[19:46] <Geth> Â¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/de7f19808f

[19:54] *** jmerelo left
[19:57] <AlexDaniel> avuserow: that's an interesting issue

[19:58] <AlexDaniel> avuserow: do you still name your files as .pl and .pm ?

[19:58] <AlexDaniel> avuserow: we've been suggesting to use .p6 and .pm6 for quite some time now. And very recently even .t6

[19:58] <avuserow> this happened in my module code, which I name as .pm6, and I'm willing to concede on that being a problem

[19:59] <AlexDaniel> mmm

[19:59] <avuserow> the most interesting one for me is for entrypoints, which I usually leave extension-less since they end up in my /usr/bin or equivalent

[19:59] <leont> .t6 isn't quite ready yet, but it's close

[20:00] *** kentnl joined
[20:00] *** kent\n left
[20:01] <AlexDaniel> leont: what's missing?

[20:01] <AlexDaniel> leont: I'm looking at https://github.com/perl6/user-experience/issues/36

[20:05] <leont> See my very last comment ;-)

[20:06] <leont> It would be a shame if travis doesn't actually run your testsâ€¦

[20:06] <AlexDaniel> leont: but somebody marked travis as âœ“

[20:06] <AlexDaniel> and here it even recommends .t6 https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/perl6/

[20:06] *** pmurias joined
[20:07] <leont> I don't know what they mean with that.

[20:07] <AlexDaniel> I mean, defaults to .t *and* .t6

[20:07] <leont> Maybe I missed something, the ticket is lacking helpful links

[20:07] <leont> Ah, right. That helps

[20:08] <AlexDaniel> sooo, I don't know, should we patch `prove` now?

[20:08] <AlexDaniel> or what is preventing us from recommending .t6

[20:08] *** domidumont left
[20:09] <leont> The default travis configuration has been updated, but if you override anything (which mi6 does) that doesn't help

[20:09] <leont> Fix is adding a few words here: https://github.com/skaji/mi6/blob/master/lib/App/Mi6/Template.pm6#L46

[20:10] *** zacts left
[20:11] <cpan-p6_> New module released to CPAN! HTML-Canvas (0.0.6) by 03WARRINGD

[20:14] <AlexDaniel> avuserow: thank you!

[20:15] <AlexDaniel> avuserow: I think it's the first time somebody said that, usually I only get yelled at for the notification spam :)

[20:15] <leont> I don't know travis well, but I suspect that everything would work fine if you removed the script entry entirely

[20:21] <AlexDaniel> weekly: Even though the squashathon ended, https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem-unbitrot will now be updated continuously. Feel free to pick any issue and work on it!

[20:21] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[20:22] *** lichtkind joined
[20:22] *** zacts joined
[20:24] *** zacts left
[20:26] *** zacts_pi joined
[20:26] *** zacts_pi left
[20:37] *** avuserow joined
[20:41] <tbrowder> if anyone is interested, my new Date::Names module could use some eyes on it from native speakers of German, Spanish, Italian, Dutx

[20:41] <tbrowder> Dur

[20:41] <tbrowder> Dutch, and French.

[20:43] <tbrowder> i got tired of putting name hashes in scripts and couldnâ€™t find them standalone anywhere in existing modules.

[20:45] *** ravenousmoose left
[20:47] *** zacts joined
[20:49] *** zakharyas left
[20:50] *** random_yanek joined
[20:52] *** drolax joined
[20:58] <moritz> tbrowder: want a pull request for Norwegian (BokmÃ¥l)?

[20:59] <sena_kun> ...and Russian and Ukrainian...

[21:00] <tbrowder> sure, thanks! all the above are welcome!

[21:03] <sena_kun> tbrowder, what is the thing with capitalization? is it meant to be used in sentences/messages?

[21:04] *** leszekdubiel joined
[21:05] *** avuserow left
[21:06] <leszekdubiel> how to take one  letter from beginning of string and four letters from the end? 

[21:06] <leszekdubiel> in perl5:                 perl -e 'my $a = "asdfghjkl"; print $a =~ s/\A(.).*(....)\z/$1...$2/r; print "\n"; '

[21:06] <leszekdubiel> prints    a...hjkl

[21:07] <moritz> m: my $a = 'asdfghjkl'; say $a.substr(0, 1), '...', $a.substr(*-4)

[21:07] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«a...hjklâ¤Â»

[21:07] <tbrowder> In English, all month and weekday names are always capitalized.  Most of the other languages of the five I entered always use lower-case unless starting a sentence or such. German seemed to be an exception. I would like to be consistent as is possible for each language, so I rely on the native or expert language person to choose what each defaults should be. That is the purpos of the table: show what is in each language hash.

[21:07] <leszekdubiel> ok, thanks

[21:09] <sena_kun> tbrowder, roger, thanks for the explanation! _writes a commit_

[21:10] <tbrowder> sena_kun: you're welcome, i hope that was clear enough to use!

[21:11] *** avuserow joined
[21:12] <sena_kun> tbrowder, if not all days have 3-letter version, should I use 2-lettre?

[21:12] <sena_kun> s/lettre/letter/

[21:12] *** sealmove joined
[21:14] <tbrowder> that's a good question that i don't have a good answer for. in english it is easy, and in german, too. does the language you're working on use 2- and 3-letter abbreviations?

[21:14] <sena_kun> well, there are 2-letters for everything, but no 3-letters for everything. :S

[21:15] <sena_kun> tbrowder, see new PR.

[21:15] <tbrowder> well, partial lists are okay

[21:15] <tbrowder> i'll work on the README to point out such situations

[21:16] <sena_kun> tbrowder++

[21:20] <tbrowder> hm, sena_kun, you're also Altai-man?

[21:20] <sena_kun> yup, that's me

[21:20] <tbrowder> ok, aliases all over!

[21:21] <sena_kun> well... that's a long and boring story. :) but yes, aliases are everywhere.

[21:22] <tbrowder> anyhoo, i got yours, and 2 from moritz, i don't promise action too soon--lots of other "honey-do"s around here :-D

[21:22] <tbrowder> thanks!

[21:23] <sena_kun> sure, have fun!

[21:30] *** random_yanek left
[21:38] *** leszekdubiel left
[21:40] *** abraxxa left
[21:47] *** patrickb left
[21:47] *** random_yanek joined
[21:48] <Elronnd> in a given/when, if I have something like when "0" .. "9", is there a way to get at the actual value other than $_?

[21:52] <tbrowder> ok, ref date abbreviations for some languages: i will make new category hashes called %mowa and %dowa which will contain a mixed set of the shortest abbreviation when a language doesn't have a complete set of 2- or 3-letter abbrevs. comments? does that make sense?

[21:52] <tbrowder> %mona

[21:52] <moritz> Elronnd: is $_ not enough?

[21:58] *** zacts left
[22:00] *** dct joined
[22:04] *** sealmove left
[22:07] <Elronnd> moritz: no because I want to refer to it in the middle, at which point $_ will refer to something else

[22:09] <timotimo> "in the middle"?

[22:10] <timotimo> m: given 4 { when "0" .. "9" { say $_ } }

[22:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«4â¤Â»

[22:12] <sena_kun> for this specific case, there is probably a trick...

[22:13] <Elronnd> m: my $bar = 9; given 4 { when 0 .. 9 { $bar += $_; say $_; } }

[22:13] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«4â¤Â»

[22:13] <Elronnd> wait -- what?

[22:13] <Elronnd> clearly I don't understand $_ semantics :P

[22:13] <sena_kun> m: given 5 { when /(<[0123456789]>)/ { say $0; say $/; } }

[22:13] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«ï½¢5ï½£â¤ï½¢5ï½£â¤ 0 => ï½¢5ï½£â¤Â»

[22:13] <sena_kun> Elronnd, you want += the other way around.

[22:13] <sena_kun> m: my $bar = 9; given 4 { when 0 .. 9 { $_ += $bar; say $_; } }

[22:13] <camelia> rakudo-moar d904b7048: OUTPUT: Â«Cannot assign to an immutable valueâ¤  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1â¤â¤Â»

[22:13] <sena_kun> oops

[22:14] <sena_kun> well, the semantics is correct, anyway, as it is $bar that changes, not $_.

[22:15] <Elronnd> I thought $_ referred to the most recent evaluated expression, so it should be 13 in that case

[22:15] <sena_kun> it's not, I think.

[22:16] <timotimo> there are "contextualizers" that will set $_

[22:16] <timotimo> like `for`

[22:34] <Kaiepi> what does trait_mod is raw do?

[22:36] *** yqt left
[22:41] *** cpan-p6_ left
[22:41] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:45] *** drolax left
[22:45] <timotimo> same as using a \foo parameter

[22:45] <timotimo> it won't enforce a context like scalar or positional

[22:49] *** pmurias left
[22:53] <Kaiepi> what about on methods?

[22:58] <timotimo> oh, that's about the return type

[22:58] <timotimo> the same way you can make a method "is rw", but "is rw" will of course require a writable container

[23:03] <Elronnd> I made a partial application thingy http://sprunge.us/GXstgj.  I want to add named parameters to it, but I'm not sure how; if I had a **%params, I get an error

[23:04] <timotimo> you need *%params

[23:05] <Elronnd> ah

[23:05] <Elronnd> why?

[23:06] <timotimo> that's how named arguments get slurped

[23:06] <Elronnd> but, why's it inconsistent

[23:06] <timotimo> named parameters don't have a structure that you could have to preserve

[23:06] <timotimo> so no need for ** or +

[23:06] <timotimo> there's just * there

[23:07] <Elronnd> ahh

[23:07] *** mowcat joined
[23:08] <Elronnd> is there a way to make the 'ret' function anonymous?

[23:08] <timotimo> sure

[23:08] <timotimo> just leave "ret" out and also "&ret" at the end

[23:09] <Elronnd> ...duh

[23:09] <Elronnd> of course

[23:09] <Elronnd> :P

[23:10] <timotimo> :)

[23:15] <Elronnd> is it possible to declare multiple variables on the same line?  Like my $a, $b;?

[23:17] *** lichtkind left
[23:18] <sena_kun> my ($a, $b);

[23:19] <Elronnd> thanks

[23:30] *** dct left
[23:51] *** AlexDaniel left
[23:57] *** w_richard_w joined
[23:58] <leont> .tell AlexDaniel https://github.com/skaji/mi6/commit/017c8dc43fa5b7a5e09d9cc7de7faeaa8661faad :-)

[23:58] <yoleaux> leont: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[23:58] *** w_richard_w1 joined
