[00:43] *** aborazmeh joined
[00:43] *** aborazmeh left
[00:43] *** aborazmeh joined
[00:44] *** _jrjsmrtn joined
[00:46] *** __jrjsmrtn__ left
[00:49] *** wildtrees left
[01:18] *** khisanth_ left
[01:19] *** khisanth_ joined
[01:25] *** leont left
[01:25] *** Xliff left
[01:29] *** jediluke joined
[01:37] *** aborazmeh left
[01:43] *** lucasb left
[01:50] *** Cabanossi joined
[02:42] *** Cabanossi left
[02:50] *** mateu left
[02:52] *** Cabanossi joined
[03:15] *** n1ge joined
[04:00] *** jediluke left
[04:07] *** sauvin left
[04:13] *** cinch joined
[04:16] *** sauvin joined
[04:36] *** jediluke joined
[04:51] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[04:52] *** abraxxa left
[05:07] *** sena_kun joined
[05:11] *** jmerelo joined
[05:14] <jmerelo> .seen colomon

[05:14] <tellable6> jmerelo, I saw colomon 2018-09-07T16:20:08Z in #perl6: <colomon> (translating some perl 5 $workhorse scripts to perl 6 because I‚Äôm having difficulty getting needed p5 modules working on my Mac.)

[05:15] *** jediluke left
[05:19] *** jediluke joined
[05:47] *** delimited left
[05:51] *** wamba joined
[05:54] *** n1ge left
[05:57] *** jediluke left
[06:00] *** jediluke joined
[06:10] *** jediluke left
[06:12] *** jediluke joined
[06:12] <tyil> AlexDaniel: yes, me

[06:18] *** domidumont joined
[06:18] *** domidumont left
[06:19] *** domidumont joined
[06:22] *** jediluke left
[06:23] <jmerelo> .tell AlexDaniel Geth seems to be down...

[06:23] <tellable6> jmerelo, I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel

[06:23] <tyil> jmerelo: that's something I host

[06:23] <tyil> it seems connected to the channel

[06:24] <tyil> is it not posting updated?

[06:24] <tyil> updates*

[06:24] <jmerelo> Apparently not...

[06:25] <tyil> I can give it a kick and see, I don't have time at this exact moment to debug since I'm lreaving for work

[06:25] <jmerelo> tyil: no problem.

[06:26] <tyil> I can probably take a quick look when I'm at work

[06:26] *** Geth joined
[06:26] *** Geth_ left
[06:26] <jmerelo> tyil: thanks.

[06:39] *** n1ge joined
[06:43] *** jmerelo left
[06:43] *** khisanth_ left
[06:52] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:52] *** wamba left
[06:52] <tyil> .tell jmerelo which message was not sent by Geth? in the logs I saw a message about the docs repo, and in #raku I saw Geth posting about the docs repo update

[06:52] <tellable6> tyil, I'll pass your message to jmerelo

[06:53] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:53] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:53] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:55] *** jediluke joined
[06:57] *** khisanth_ joined
[07:00] *** wamba joined
[07:02] *** abraxxa joined
[07:02] *** abraxxa left
[07:02] *** abraxxa joined
[07:03] *** xinming_ left
[07:03] *** abraxxa left
[07:04] *** abraxxa joined
[07:04] *** wamba left
[07:05] *** abraxxa left
[07:06] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[07:06] *** xinming_ joined
[07:06] *** abraxxa joined
[07:11] *** abraxxa left
[07:12] *** abraxxa joined
[07:22] *** kensanata joined
[07:34] *** dakkar joined
[07:38] *** jediluke left
[08:16] *** wamba joined
[08:17] *** aborazmeh joined
[08:17] *** aborazmeh left
[08:17] *** aborazmeh joined
[08:28] <domm> how does something like "PerlishCon 2020" sound to raku devs? Or is PerlRakuCon better?

[08:29] *** wamba left
[08:34] *** wamba joined
[08:40] *** pecastro joined
[08:54] <sena_kun> domm, I think the conference naming question goes to those who organize conferences, do you? the renaming document specifies examples of naming

[08:58] <sena_kun> domm, https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/pull/89/files#diff-94c7450ef7d64cc9a0320d8f232017cfR307 <-

[09:09] *** aborazmeh left
[09:15] *** squashable6 left
[09:17] *** squashable6 joined
[09:17] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[09:21] <domm> sena_kun: yeah, I'm asking as a orga :-)

[09:22] <sena_kun> domm, oh, great. I am not a core dev, so can't answer then. :)

[09:24] <nine> domm: will there be a longer version of the name, too, or is it just the short one?

[09:24] <domm> no prob, and thanks for the link... but I find "The Perl and Raku Conference" a bit long, and don't want to go back to an acronym

[09:25] <domm> nine: I very much liked perlcon.eu, much better than cryptic yapc / tpciX

[09:25] <nine> But but but.... it could be PeRlCon (Perl and Raku Languages Convention)

[09:26] <domm> :-)

[09:27] <nine> Oh, should be PeRLCon obviously

[09:27] <domm> thats of course the best solution, but I was wondering if we want to make raku more visible in the urls/hashtags

[09:28] <domm> which would not work in PerlishCon

[09:28] <domm> and PerlRakuCon is a bit 

[09:28] <nine> PerlishCon seems too subtle a hint to be worth it

[09:28] <domm> and PerlRakuCon is a bit "hatschert" (if you pardon my Viennese)

[09:30] <nine> Call it PR Con and see who shows up ;)

[09:42] *** sno left
[09:49] <domm> nine: while I have your attention: what about a Perl&Raku Workshop in Linz, maybe early spring 2020?

[09:49] *** wamba left
[09:50] <jnthn> Linz is a direct train from Prague. :)

[09:50] <nine> Sounds lovely. As long as I don't have to organize anything ;) I've learned my lesson there...

[09:50] <jnthn> So I'd probably be quite tempted :)

[09:50] <nine> jnthn: darn

[09:50] <domm> oh, and maro≈° will show a simple geizhals-internal raku web app at tomorrows Vienna.pm TechSocialMeet 

[09:51] <jnthn> nine: Why darn? It means I could easily attend an event in Linz ;)

[09:51] <domm> nine: we can organize most of it remotely, but would need a venue (maybe your office, if it's big enough?)

[09:51] <nine> jnthn: because it makes it all the harder to say "I won't organise anyting"

[09:52] *** reach_satori left
[09:52] <jnthn> Oh :D

[09:52] <tyil> sena_kun: you're a possible attendee, so your opinion is still valued :>

[09:54] <nine> Actually we moved to a much nicer office a year ago and have a very nice 100 sqm room on the top floor with a very pretty view

[09:57] <lizmat> Why not just RakuCon ?

[09:58] <lizmat> I sorta suspect the number of Perl 5 visitors / speakers at a PerlRakuCon will be limited anyway

[09:59] <nine> lizmat: they haven't been the past few years when YAPC/Perlcon was targeting Perl5 and Perl 6?

[10:01] <lizmat> my feeling about the Perl 5 community atm, is that most of them will not attend a conference / workshop from which it is clear that Raku is also targeted

[10:02] <nine> I assume that feeling is created by the noisy few, not the large but silent majority

[10:03] <lizmat> well, I can only hope my feeling is wrong

[10:04] <nine> I'm pretty sure right now is peak emotion and things will only calm down from here.

[10:08] <Juerd> I can't get the word perakul out of my head.

[10:08] <Juerd> It sounds horrible but it has both perl and raku in it.

[10:08] <domm> I'm quite sure that a lot of Perl people will attend an event that's targeted at Perl and Raku

[10:08] <Juerd> domm, lizmat: Isn't the only way to be sure, to try?

[10:09] <domm> if it's "only" RakuCon, I'm not so sure (and vice versa, hence my search for a conference name that covers both)

[10:09] <domm> and while I like PeRLCon, I think it might be to cryptic and not inviting enough for Raku...

[10:09] <Juerd> There's been a great name debate surrounding the Dutch quadrennial hacker event, and many different people had different expectations of the rest of the community. During a vote, though, many gut feelings were proven wrong...

[10:10] <lizmat> yeah, and that is only casing away from PerlCon, which doesn't help in search engines

[10:11] <Juerd> For search engines, tag lines work just as well as identifiers

[10:11] <Juerd> Only when you have direct competitors, does the ranking of information really matter

[10:12] <Juerd> (By that I mean title > heading > article text > footnote)

[10:13] *** pmurias joined
[10:15] <pmurias> lizmat: re feeling about Perl 5 community, did the attitude at the last TPC change (I wasn't there) or is it based on the reactions of a radical but vocal minority?

[10:20] <lizmat> pmurias: PerlCon was actually better than I'd hoped

[10:20] <lizmat> PTS was a disaster in that respect

[10:22] <lizmat> but generally, the way prominent Perl 5 community members treat Perl 6:

[10:22] <lizmat> you are treated like an abscess that needs to removed from the body as soon as possible

[10:23] <lizmat> a certain person's actions on the Perl 6 facebook group made that abundantly clear

[10:23] <lizmat> but there's also people on this channel, who have *NO* affinity with Perl 6 / Raku at all

[10:23] <lizmat> who are just here to make sure Perl 6 leaves the building as soon as possible

[10:28] *** finanalyst_ joined
[10:29] *** epony left
[10:35] <pmurias> lizmat: I do think we giving a damn about what a tiny minority thinks about us makes any sense, it's a lot better to be polarising then ignored

[10:35] <lizmat> within the Perl echo chamber, it's not a tiny minority

[10:36] <lizmat> ask anybody in the echo chamber what they think about the renaming, and they'll say that it was long overdue

[10:36] <lizmat> and that they're glad it's happening now

[10:37] <lizmat> outside of the echo chamber, nobody cares about Perl anymore

[10:37] <pmurias> lizmat: sure, I meant the declared Perl 6 haters

[10:37] <pmurias> or now Raku haters ;)

[10:38] <lizmat> sorry, I've tried to be that callous towards those people, but I can't

[10:43] <nine> lizmat: the sentiment among our Perl/Raku programmers at work seems to be: "oh, yeah, we don't care what it's called"

[10:43] <nine> And they love both languages

[10:44] <lizmat> I also love both languages

[10:44] <lizmat> it's the community around Perl 5 in which I've lost all trust

[10:45] *** wamba joined
[10:47] *** pmurias left
[10:56] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> I understand how you feel, lizmat

[10:56] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> I'm a JavaScript dev so, I'm no stranger to people trying to shoo me away in other programming servers

[10:57] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> Stay powerful

[10:59] *** pmurias joined
[11:13] *** reach_satori joined
[11:23] *** epony joined
[11:23] *** aborazmeh joined
[11:23] *** aborazmeh left
[11:23] *** aborazmeh joined
[11:28] *** n1ge left
[11:30] <El_Che> domm: what about "PRC"? We may get sponsoring from China :)

[11:33] <tadzik> recent happenings show you why it's not always a good idea ;)

[11:34] <tyil> I don't think we should be looking for the most clever name, but a name that people can read and just know what it's about

[11:34] *** daxim left
[11:39] <lizmat> Perl Family Conference

[11:39] <lizmat> emphasizing both the family aspect of the languages, as well as being an event to which you can bring your family

[11:39] *** daxim joined
[11:45] * lizmat tries to work on the last Perl 6 Weekly again

[11:47] <tadzik> that's a great name :)

[11:47] <domm> El_Che: I don't want to use an acronym again...

[11:49] <domm> lizmat: I like "Perlish Con" better then "Perl Family" or "Perl and Friends" etc

[11:49] *** pmurias left
[11:49] *** pmurias joined
[11:50] <lizmat> I was just giving a suggestion, I'm not an organizer of Perl events anymore

[11:50] <domm> or we could just drop the "Con" and go for "Perl & Raku 2020" (and have the "con" only in the url (perlrakucon.eu)

[11:50] *** aborazmeh left
[11:51] <domm> yeah, and I'm here trying to get some feedback / brainstorming on names that not only won't offend anybody in our slightly complicated family, but let everybody feel included and welcomed :-)

[11:53] <jjatria> WhipIT: a conference celebrating whipupitude in IT (featuring Perl and Raku)

[11:54] <sena_kun> .oO ( TimToadyCon )

[11:56] *** Kaiepi left
[11:57] <El_Che> domm: I like the "Perl & Raku 2020" naming

[11:58] <El_Che> the fact that both are in the name suggest a relationship already

[11:58] * sena_kun likes `Perl & Raku` too

[12:03] <domm> but will this taint Raku again with the old Perl baggage? uff, naming things...

[12:06] <sena_kun> I am not sure how it'll taint anything compared to e.g. Perlish Con or Perl Family.

[12:08] <tyil> domm: iirc, Shitov still wants to do Rakucon, if the perl baggage is the main problem, we'll see everyone flocking to there, no?

[12:09] <AlexDaniel> tyil: this situation is so weird

[12:10] <AlexDaniel> tyil: so at the end of perlcon there was voting on where the next conference will be held

[12:10] <tyil> it is strange indeed, but I'm not going to complain about more raku events :p

[12:10] <AlexDaniel> everyone voted, including those mainly involved with raku, to show their preference

[12:11] <AlexDaniel> and now I'm completely confused as to what's going to happen in reality

[12:11] <AlexDaniel> will perlcon be perl-only con?

[12:11] <AlexDaniel> if not, then what's exactly the point of rakucon?

[12:12] <tyil> the conference in Amsterdam is for both Perl and Raku

[12:12] <tyil> Shitov's rakucon appears to be for only Raku

[12:12] <tyil> (but you'd have to ask him for more details, I don't co-organize that event)

[12:13] <AlexDaniel> I don't know about ‚Äúmore‚Äù, if you have a rakucon and a perl family con, it feels like some people will go to only one

[12:13] * lizmat is not in favour of RakuCon as proposed by Andrew Shitov

[12:15] <AlexDaniel> and that's also a problem, yes, given how Andrew is completely and purposefully disconnected from everything we do around here

[12:18] <lizmat> well, he presents us with his views: https://raku.online/2019/10/12/ok-raku/

[12:19] <lizmat> in which he suggests that someone will build a faster, better Raku compiler

[12:19] *** n1ge joined
[12:19] <lizmat> also: "I want to reset all previous grudges and start it over."

[12:20] <lizmat> which, given his comments on FaceBook yesterday, seems to imply starting new grudges  :-(

[12:20] <AlexDaniel> am I crazy to want him to discuss thoughts like this with rakudo developers before making public proposals in his blog posts?

[12:20] <AlexDaniel> also, why is it so hard

[12:21] <tyil> I don't know about Andrew's comments on facebook, since facebook doesn't load in my browsers due to privacy settings/addons

[12:21] <tyil> (and I'd like to keep it that way, for privacy and security reasons)

[12:21] <pmurias> it's interesting how he wants to build a faster Rakudo

[12:21] <tyil> AlexDaniel: do we have a ML for this kind of stuff? I know the venue mailing list exists for conference planning, but would this fit?

[12:21] <AlexDaniel> tyil: his comments are mostly positive after Larry's review, but with little bits of cancer sprinkled all over them

[12:22] <AlexDaniel> tyil: there's problem-solving repo for discussing big questions like this, but what I'm suggesting is him simply coming to #perl6-dev and having a chat

[12:22] <tyil> that would work too

[12:23] *** lucasb joined
[12:25] *** Kaiepi joined
[12:26] <AlexDaniel> ‚ÄúIf you want to help my team‚Äù and then we're being called a hijack lobby

[12:27] <tyil> I think we could all do with some more love and attention tbh

[12:28] <El_Che> AlexDaniel: I don't think his behaviour inspires confidence and while I would love a Raku conference in the future it looks to happen in a spirit of confrontation, and that's where we want to be atm

[12:28] <tyil> it seems like everyone is still a bit upset 

[12:29] <lizmat> El_Che: don't ?

[12:30] <El_Che> no, Perl 6 is now Raku, the version trouble is fixed, no need for drama

[12:30] <El_Che> if people want to organize stuff in good faith being Perl+Raku or Raku only, it's ok

[12:31] <El_Che> but RakuConf looks more like a competitor for the Conf in Amsterdam

[12:31] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: reread your message

[12:32] <El_Che> so, I have trouble being enthousiastic about the context of RakuConf?

[12:32] <El_Che> I don't make sense?

[12:32] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: I don't know, it sounded like you said that we want to be in confrontation

[12:33] <El_Che> oh, no, that's not what I meant

[12:40] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:40] *** aborazmeh left
[12:40] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:45] *** aborazmeh left
[12:50] <pmurias> why does TPC even need to be renamed?

[12:51] *** Xliff joined
[13:08] *** aborazmeh joined
[13:08] *** aborazmeh left
[13:08] *** aborazmeh joined
[13:30] *** squashable6 left
[13:31] *** squashable6 joined
[13:31] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[13:35] *** epony left
[13:37] *** pmurias left
[13:38] *** pmurias joined
[13:40] <nine> I _guess_ that once people are involved enough to consider going to a conference, the name does'nt matter as much anymore. Someone who's into Raku enough to want to learn more already knows that it's not 1990's Perl even if the conference has "Perl" in the name

[13:42] *** epony joined
[13:46] <Xliff> m: <a b c d>.kv.say

[13:46] <camelia> rakudo-moar f3dda96a8: OUTPUT: ¬´(0 a 1 b 2 c 3 d)‚ê§¬ª

[13:46] <Xliff> m: <a b c d>.reverse.kv.say

[13:46] <camelia> rakudo-moar f3dda96a8: OUTPUT: ¬´(0 d 1 c 2 b 3 a)‚ê§¬ª

[13:49] <pmurias> having Perl in the name likely help people who are interested in Raku and work as Perl devs

[13:50] <nine> good point

[13:54] <lizmat> but "Perl" just by itself means "Perl 5"

[13:55] <lizmat> if there is nothing else in the name indicating other languages, then it sort of defeats the purpose

[13:55] <lizmat> which is why I will not attend / sponsor such events anymore, like this weekend: "London Perl Workshop"

[13:57] *** sena_kun left
[13:57] *** aborazmeh left
[13:58] <Ulti> just have a satellite meeting at the conference... this is not rocket science

[14:00] <Ulti> all the Raku stuff on a specific day in a specific room so someone can come just for that if they so wish and it has its own name and branding when it has enough interest you consider breaking it out into another conference... almost every academic conference I have ever been to is like this, enitre new named fields are born this way

[14:00] <jdv79> is lpw not happy with raku stuff?

[14:01] <SmokeMachine> jdv79: I think they are... they aproved my talk about Red...

[14:02] <nine> If Andrew wants to initiate a new Raku compiler then I wish him the very best! We can only profit. Worst case is he discovers why it's so hard and learns a lot in the process and may be able to contribute back to rakudo. Best case is we find out we were on the wrong path and we get a faster Raku and I get more time for my other hobbies ;)

[14:04] <SmokeMachine> jdv79: http://act.yapc.eu/lpw2019/talks/tag/perl6

[14:04] <Ulti> the reason I cam in was also slightly more contentious... is anyone else having issues with OpenSSL and its various ecosystem libs?

[14:04] <Ulti> especially Cro is tricky to install on macOS Catalina right now

[14:05] <Ulti> in case any interested parties are around https://gist.github.com/MattOates/e7a7351d28d9bf4c073948a26b74e682

[14:05] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: I had that problem... I needed to create a link for the lib to make it work

[14:06] <Ulti> hmm so possibly fixable by altering the bit that goes hunting for what to bind in NativeCall then

[14:06] <Ulti> SmokeMachine: would you mind PMing some pointers to your fix and I can take a look later?

[14:06] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: to be fair, LPW was being organized before we fully got Raku

[14:07] <lizmat> I discussed name change with one of the organizers of LPW as far back as last May, and made my stance clear already then

[14:08] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: I don't mind at all, but I'm not on my personal mac now (where I did that)... would you mind if I contact you later about that?

[14:08] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: they could have set a good example, they did not want to

[14:09] * lizmat can only vote with her feet in such a case

[14:12] <pmurias> lizmat: at least to me it seems a bit of a stretch for them to rename a conference before an official decision

[14:12] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: I did something like this: https://stackoverflow.com/posts/40136991/revisions

[14:13] <lizmat> pmurias: I didn't suggest anything with Raku, because that was not a thing then

[14:13] <pmurias> ahh

[14:13] <lizmat> I just wanted to make clear that it was not just about Perl 5 somehow, like "London Perl Family Workshop"

[14:14] <lizmat> or, like Barcelona: "London Perl And Friends"

[14:14] <lizmat> but alas, no change

[14:17] <pmurias> aren't all (recent) Perl conferences targeting both 5&6?

[14:18] * pmurias does want to argue but I don't see the issue prior to the rename

[14:23] <SmokeMachine> pmurias, I think I've sent you a question some time ago... but I don't remember what question it was (neighter if I really did that...)

[14:24] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: something await related?

[14:25] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: yes, I think so! and it's possible you already answered... (please forgive my terrible memory...)

[14:27] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: I'll try to get await to work once I finish the tutorial and wrap the grant up

[14:29] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: but now I have a new question! :) some time ago I saw the generated code from rakudo.js and it was, at that time, comenting a lot of `/*await */`. is that uncommented now? are all those awaits to handle the raku's await?

[14:30] <lizmat> pmurias: yes, but most people outside of the Perl community only see "Perl" and think "Perl 5", not knowing about the existence of Perl 6

[14:31] <SmokeMachine> lizmat: but wouldn't that be good to go to that events and talk even more about Rakudo to make the people know about that?

[14:31] *** reach_satori left
[14:32] <lizmat> what you think many people have been doing the past years ?

[14:32] <SmokeMachine> lizmat: yes, so why not continue with that?

[14:32] <lizmat> because the people attending such events, are either Perl 6 people that know there are going to be Perl 6 talks

[14:33] <lizmat> or Perl 5 people only marginally interested or not interested in Perl 6 at all

[14:33] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: parcel-plugin-async-perl6 uncomments those

[14:33] <lizmat> there are generally no other people at such events

[14:34] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: under node.js that's kept commented and we use fibers

[14:34] *** MasterDuke joined
[14:34] <SmokeMachine> lizmat: you think there is no people on perl events that doesn't know about raku?

[14:34] <lizmat> wrt to inside the echo chamber: the London Perl Workshop this weekend has 5 presentations with "Perl" in their name, but meaning "Perl 5"

[14:35] <pmurias> lizmat: that's a valid point, but neither the Perl Family Workshop or Perl and Friend Workshop names will tell anyone outside  of the Perl community Raku/Perl 6 exists

[14:35] *** xinming_ left
[14:36] <lizmat> it will make clearer that it's not just Perl 5

[14:37] <lizmat> also: there are 7 presentations at LPW without "Perl" in their title, that are about Perl 5

[14:37] <lizmat> https://act.yapc.eu/lpw2019/talks

[14:38] *** xinming_ joined
[14:39] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: I don't know node.js fibers... why is it better than async/await?

[14:40] <pmurias> faster

[14:40] <pmurias> at least it was

[14:41] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: it uses slow thread when needed rather then async/await everywhere

[14:42] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: hum... I'll search about that... thanks

[14:42] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: it's a module on npm

[14:43] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: yes... I saw that...

[14:45] <pmurias> lizmat: those name are an more explicit endorsement of Perl 6 by the organizers but if I didn't know about Perl 6 I wouldn't discover it from hearing the names alones

[14:45] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: And have you decided about the JS wrapper's gist?

[14:47] <pmurias> SmokeMachine: what do you think about using https://www.npmjs.com/package/browser-util-inspect?

[14:48] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: I think that's great!

[14:49] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: that will be very helpful...

[14:49] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: and do not break when you try to say something will be even better! :)

[14:50] <pmurias> I didn't understand the last sentence

[14:51] <SmokeMachine> pmurias: I was trying to make a joke about me making so many mistakes when I was trying to see why I couldn't make the fetch work...

[14:51] <pmurias> ah ok

[14:54] *** domidumont left
[14:56] *** domidumont joined
[15:04] *** zakharyas joined
[15:06] *** pmurias left
[15:15] *** perryprog joined
[15:22] *** domidumont left
[15:25] *** zakharyas left
[15:29] *** kensanata left
[15:34] *** jmerelo joined
[15:49] *** domidumont joined
[15:50] <tony-o_> m: my role XY[$xy] { method xy { $xy; }; }; my $x = Metamodel::ClassHOW.new_type(:name<xyz>); $x.^add_role(XY); $x["a"].^compose;

[15:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar f3dda96a8: OUTPUT: ¬´Type check failed in binding to parameter '<anon>'; expected Any but got xyz (?)‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[15:52] *** scimon joined
[15:53] <scimon> So should we look to rename in any talks we're doing at the weekend? Or would that be premature?

[15:53] <jnthn> tony-o_: The ["a"] needs to go on the XY being passed to add_role

[15:55] <tony-o_> jnthn++ maybe i shouldn't be doing this today

[15:59] *** xinming_ left
[15:59] *** xinming joined
[16:00] *** abraxxa left
[16:00] <jmerelo> scimon: probably yes. Name has changed. Not the rest.

[16:00] <tellable6> 2019-10-15T06:52:37Z #perl6 <tyil> jmerelo which message was not sent by Geth? in the logs I saw a message about the docs repo, and in #raku I saw Geth posting about the docs repo update

[16:00] <jmerelo> .tell tyil the message with the big renaming from Perl 6 to Raku in the doc repo

[16:00] <tellable6> jmerelo, I'll pass your message to tyil

[16:01] <tyil> 08:09 <Geth_> ¬¶ doc: Changes occurrences of "Perl 6" to Raku

[16:01] <tyil> this one?

[16:01] <jmerelo> tyil: ah, right.

[16:01] <tyil> all messages sent to #perl6 and #perl6-dev are sent to their raku counterparts instead

[16:01] <tyil> a small patch was added for this purpose

[16:01] <jmerelo> tyil: is there a raku counterpart?

[16:01] *** robertle joined
[16:02] <tyil> #raku and #raku-dev

[16:02] *** xinming left
[16:03] <jmerelo> tyil: so should we all move there? Is this going to be closed or just kept?

[16:03] <tyil> I am told that eventually, a redirect will be placed on #perl6 to #raku, and similar for -dev

[16:04] <tyil> I'm not sure whose ultimately responsible for setting it, so I have no timeline for this

[16:05] *** xinming joined
[16:07] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: yes, just move now

[16:08] *** ChanServ sets mode: +o mst

[16:09] *** mst changes topic to: ¬ª√∂¬´ #raku and #raku-dev are OPEN FOR BUSINESS | https://perl6.org/ | evalbot usage: 'p6: say 3;' or /msg camelia p6: ... | irclog: http://irc.perl6.org or http://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6  | UTF-8 is our friend! ü¶ã

[16:09] *** mst sets mode: -o mst

[16:09] <mst> AlexDaniel: maybe that'll help

[16:10] *** perryprog left
[16:10] <AlexDaniel> mst: we'll see

[16:11] *** Cabanossi left
[16:12] *** perryprog joined
[16:13] *** perryprog left
[16:13] *** perryprog joined
[16:18] <perryprog> Yo. I'm wondering what would be a fairly clean way to port a bit of code I had written in Julia to Perl (educational purposes, nothing special). Essentially it's a tedious bit of math from KenKen.

[16:19] <perryprog> I just need to know what possible combinations of numbers (from 1 to 6, but occasionally something like 1 to 6 without 4 and 5) will result in a given number with a given operation (in any order for subtraction or division)

[16:19] *** cinch left
[16:19] <perryprog> While I could just write this out in an imperative style I wonder what a more concise method would be. 

[16:20] <perryprog> Sorry, s/Perl/Raku/ :)

[16:20] *** releasable6 joined
[16:20] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v releasable6

[16:21] *** Cabanossi joined
[16:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:25] <jmerelo> perryprog: Raku can deal with sets, for instance. You'll find its syntax pretty close to Julia. Including the concurrent bits.

[16:25] *** scimon left
[16:25] <jmerelo> perryprog: post your code somewhere, and let's take a look... 

[16:26] *** domidumont left
[16:26] <perryprog> https://hastebin.com/dolavapowu.rb

[16:26] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:26] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:26] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:26] <perryprog> I haven't modularized it or shoved it into a function or anything out of laziness, and I also am only using in on the repl

[16:34] <perryprog> But it's nothing special from a technical point of view. I do want to make it a bit easier to use in the future, but that's less important. 

[16:35] <perryprog> For now I'll probably just be able to use combinations(List) with the length arg jawn. 

[16:41] *** domidumont joined
[16:41] <AlexDaniel> perryprog: what about: for <2 4> X <2 4 5> -> ($a, $b) { ‚Ä¶ }

[16:46] *** tamiko joined
[16:46] *** dakkar left
[16:48] <lizmat> and the last Perl 6 Weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2019/10/15/2019-41-new-wineskins/

[16:48] <perryprog> Ah! Nice‚ÄîI had forgotten about that. Somewhat obscure operators FTW.

[16:51] *** domidumont left
[17:01] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> m: <2 4> Z <2 4 5>

[17:01] <evalable6> RaycatWhoDat, rakudo-moar f3dda96a8: OUTPUT: ¬´WARNINGS for /tmp/W7SnCtmMA8:‚ê§Useless use of "Z" in expression "<2 4> Z <2 4 5>" in sink context (line 1)‚ê§¬ª

[17:01] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> m: say <2 4> Z <2 4 5>;

[17:01] <evalable6> RaycatWhoDat, rakudo-moar f3dda96a8: OUTPUT: ¬´((2 2) (4 4))‚ê§¬ª

[17:02] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> m: say flat <2 4> Z <2 4 5>;

[17:02] <evalable6> RaycatWhoDat, rakudo-moar f3dda96a8: OUTPUT: ¬´(2 2 4 4)‚ê§¬ª

[17:02] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> ye

[17:04] *** n1ge left
[17:06] *** Itaipu joined
[17:11] *** finanalyst_ left
[17:17] *** wildtrees joined
[17:41] *** Cabanossi left
[17:56] *** Cabanossi joined
[18:28] *** sauvin left
[18:40] *** eisen48 joined
[18:53] *** eisen48 left
[18:53] *** sno joined
[18:59] *** squashable6 left
[19:02] *** squashable6 joined
[19:04] *** jmerelo left
[19:13] *** ozzy joined
[19:19] <jdv79> tony-o_: can you help with adding modules to the p6c eco?

[19:19] *** freackout joined
[19:20] <jdv79> .tell ugexe  https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/issues/468 ?

[19:20] <tellable6> jdv79, I'll pass your message to ugexe

[19:22] *** molaf joined
[19:24] *** wildtrees left
[19:24] *** sena_kun joined
[19:28] <ozzy> mst: I was suggested to ask you for help getting a CPAN account

[19:30] <ozzy> mst: there should be a (two actually, but only the last one is relevant) request for an account dated 09.10.2019 in a mailbox somewhere

[19:30] <mst> argh

[19:30] <mst> I really need to find an hour to go thrtough all of those

[19:31] <ozzy> mst: requested userid TSCREW

[19:31] <mst> k

[19:32] <mst> kick me in ~20h and hopefullu I'll remember sometime during the day

[19:32] <ozzy> sure, will do! Thanks!

[19:34] <perryprog> Should #raku be used over here with the rename? Not really sure what's happenin with that

[19:34] <freackout> hi guys looking at ghidra which is a nice reverse engeneering tool....for binary.exe files to asembly And c, c++ rather cool also the ida graphing ect... Question i would love to help with or at least look into the perl compiler side of things...ie help the perl comunity...now bit i'm struggling with perl6 is written in perl6 hmm.. also runs on JVM

[19:34] <freackout> but where do i see the perl6 code itself...(rakudo) sorry for being bit thick but never seem to stumble onto this one..e.

[19:35] *** pierrot joined
[19:36] <freackout> i understand perl is in /usr/bin cant find perl6 in rakudo

[19:37] <Xliff> freackout: The perl6 "bin" is actually a script that calls moarvm

[19:37] <freackout> ok so how do see perl6 compiler

[19:37] <freackout> plz

[19:37] <vrurg> Xliff: perl6 is not a script anymore.

[19:38] <Xliff> vrurg: Ah.

[19:38] <Xliff> freackout: What do you mean, "see"?

[19:38] <freackout> i wish to contribute like alter add to compiler as perl6 is a compiler writer

[19:39] <lucasb> freackout: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo

[19:39] <Xliff> freackout: You should also learn about NQP.

[19:40] <Xliff> https://github.com/perl6/nqp

[19:41] <freackout> yup got those all books relating to perl no more available read the lot.. but what i wish to do is similar to what ghidra does ie see the perl6 code....

[19:41] <freackout> of perl6

[19:41] <freackout> not my code ... the compiler itself

[19:42] *** wamba left
[19:44] <freackout> only thing i think is nqp/main.nqp

[19:45] <freackout> i will try that for now maybe open it up n view thanks guys...

[19:45] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> wat

[19:47] <freackout> nope just shows use compiler..

[19:48] <freackout> core has just core modules

[19:49] <Xliff> freackout: Yes. Perl6 is generated from nqp, and nqp is generated from a stage0 version of nqp. 

[19:49] <Xliff> perl6 and nqp compile down to MoarVM bytecode.

[19:51] <Xliff> The perl6 compiler front-end looks to be here: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/src/Perl6/Compiler.nqp

[19:51] <freackout> ok seen this bytecode stuff b4 small page in one p6 book

[19:51] <freackout> thanks xliff

[19:52] <Xliff> That is a subclass of HLL::Compiler which is from NQP: https://github.com/perl6/nqp/blob/master/src/HLL/Compiler.nqp

[19:52] <Xliff> That should be enough to get you started.

[19:53] <mst> YES JOINING #raku IS A GOOD IDEA HOPEFULLY WE WILL ALL END UP THERE SOON

[19:53] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> o_o

[19:53] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> You good, mate?

[19:53] *** pmurias joined
[19:54] *** sena_kun left
[19:55] <freackout> pad6 and comma are a good start but still not at compatibles breaking pcre to p6qregex looks also for that area

[19:55] *** sena_kun joined
[19:57] <freackout> really great help on that one Xliff however i think i got alot more reading to do...cheesed off no writing code as yet...soon though as getting old quickly..

[19:57] *** hankache joined
[19:58] <freackout> perl6 IS the future .... you heard it here...

[20:00] <freackout> leads me to hll compiler...........hmm gets deeper

[20:01] *** hankache left
[20:02] <Xliff> freackout: Best to start off slowly, with a direction. :)

[20:04] *** hankache joined
[20:07] <freackout> yep just blew my mind in three minutes and i have been places..............wow yup sticking to smaller stuff defo

[20:08] <freackout> was very happy to see ghidra demo's on youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZeUgu8-9B58

[20:11] <freackout> as have some c++ books read also....but sometimes cant really belive the effort some people go to getting opensource ruling the world. even if people add just a bit to each version gotta get a grip of git subversion ect too..

[20:13] <hankache> Hello *

[20:14] <freackout> yo :)

[20:14] <freackout> what gives lots of chat here 

[20:15] <freackout> all these folk gotta be very friendly privately that is 

[20:15] *** wildtrees joined
[20:18] <freackout> thanks guys c.u.soon

[20:18] *** delimited joined
[20:18] *** freackout left
[20:18] *** delimited is now known as Guest49251

[20:19] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> I'm still confused on that whole interaction.

[20:20] *** wamba joined
[20:25] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[20:29] *** wildtrees left
[20:30] *** cxreg joined
[20:32] <El_Che> ok, who gave mst caffeine? What did we agree?

[20:34] <discord6> <Rogue> I suspect it's going to be several weeks of asses on fire, so to speak, given all the work that needs doing wrt to the rename

[20:34] *** sena_kun left
[20:35] *** MasterDuke left
[20:37] *** lgtaube joined
[20:37] *** Guest49251 left
[20:37] *** Guest49251 joined
[20:41] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> Sounds about right

[20:43] *** wildtrees joined
[20:44] <tony-o_> jdv79: what do you mean help with adding modules to ?

[20:45] <tony-o_> what kind of help would you like?

[20:58] *** hankache left
[20:59] *** Guest49251 left
[21:09] <ozzy> tony-o_: p6c is experiencing issues with the distribution of META.list updates

[21:10] <ozzy> tony-o_: new modules can be added to META.list, but the updated list doesn't trickle down to, for instance, zef

[21:10] <ozzy> tony-o_: see https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/issues/468

[21:12] <tony-o_> wasn't p6c.org taken down?

[21:12] <tony-o_> ah guess not

[21:13] <ozzy> ? don't know.. I found it via the Perl6 documentation

[21:13] <tony-o_> did you see ugexe's comments on that issue?

[21:13] <ozzy> no

[21:13] <tony-o_> looks like you're using old zef?

[21:14] <ozzy> really? it there anything better, or do I need to update_

[21:14] <ozzy> ?

[21:14] <timotimo> p6c.org had its hardware die, but the things were restored

[21:15] <rba> Hmm. Will check http://ecosystem-api.p6c.org/projects1.json

[21:15] <tony-o_> zef is the best

[21:15] <tony-o_> ozzy you should update

[21:16] <ozzy> :-) How should ozzy update?

[21:16] <tony-o_> how did you build rakudo?

[21:16] <tony-o_> are you using star or rakudobrew or source?

[21:16] <ozzy> I got it from here: https://rakudo.org/files

[21:17] <ozzy> Star

[21:17] <ozzy> (on Linux)

[21:17] <ozzy> but I'm on 2019.03

[21:17] *** jimtron joined
[21:19] <tony-o_> git clone https://github.com/ugexe/zef.git /tmp/zef && cd /tmp/zef && perl6 -Ilib bin/zef install --force .

[21:19] <tony-o_> will install the latest master of zef

[21:19] <ozzy> ok; I'm gonna try

[21:20] <tony-o_> you might have to change your path afterwards, it will tell you at the end of the install where the zef script is installed to

[21:21] <rba> projects.json and project1.json have a recent date one ecosystems-api.p6c.org and the update.log looks fine so far.

[21:21] <rba> updating zef is the first thing I would try anyway.

[21:22] *** patrickb joined
[21:24] <ozzy> well, this doesn't seem to have resolved the issue I think I have. The new version of zef is v0.7.1, which is the same as the old version I had

[21:24] <rba> rakudo star has an old zef

[21:24] <ozzy> ok, will verify

[21:25] *** reach_satori joined
[21:26] <ozzy> I can't confirm that. My old version under /opt/rakudo-star-2019.03/share/perl6/site/bin/zef reports v0.7.1

[21:26] <ozzy> which is the same as that under /tmp/zef/bin/zef just created

[21:26] <tony-o_> ozzy do `which zef` 

[21:27] <ozzy> which zef returns /opt/rakudo-star-2019.03/share/perl6/site/bin/zef

[21:27] <tony-o_> where did the install say it installed the zef script to?

[21:28] <ozzy> in /tmp/zef/bin/zef

[21:28] <tony-o_> i don't think it installed there, though that path should exist

[21:28] <tony-o_> the output of `perl6 -Ilib bin/zef install --force .` will have the last line or so say `one bin script installed to: ` or something similar at the end

[21:28] <ozzy> find / -name zef gives me no more hits

[21:30] <ozzy> The last three lines read:

[21:30] <ozzy> -- Install

[21:30] <ozzy>   bin/zef [--version] -- Detailed version information

[21:30] <ozzy>  bin/zef [-h|--help]

[21:30] <ozzy> But let me ask you something: are you able to install my module String::FuzzyIndex ?

[21:30] <tony-o_> can you run `rm -Rf /tmp/zef`

[21:31] <tony-o_> then paste the output of running the entire command somewhere? `git clone https://github.com/ugexe/zef.git /tmp/zef && cd /tmp/zef && perl6 -Ilib bin/zef install --force .` 

[21:31] <tony-o_> the newest version is .7.4

[21:31] <ozzy> ok - trying

[21:33] <rba> I use rakudo star on mac. I have zev 0.7.4 and was able to install String::FuzzyIndex.

[21:33] <rba> Rakudo Star version 2019.03.1

[21:34] <ozzy> ok, that indeed got me version v0.7.4 - I think I accidentally left the '.' out from the earlier command

[21:35] <tony-o_> a+ - you should be good now

[21:35] <ozzy> well, I still don't see the module I added

[21:35] <tony-o_> zef update

[21:35] <ozzy> ===> Searching for: String::FuzzyIndex

[21:36] <ozzy> :-) trying

[21:36] <ozzy> awesome! it works

[21:36] <ozzy> Thanks a lot!

[21:38] <ozzy> Should I mention the fact that the update is required in the issue tracker? (https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/issues/468)

[21:38] <tony-o_> it's known that the cache is used for anything newer than 1 hr

[21:38] <tony-o_> otherwise everytime you search it'd take however long to pull down all of the conflated meta info

[21:39] <tony-o_> and searching would be unpleasant

[21:39] *** reach_satori left
[21:39] *** reach_satori joined
[21:39] <tony-o_> when i work out a couple of bugs with a service then you won't have to wait at all

[21:40] <ozzy> ok - seems I mistakenly thought the issue discussed there was different from my own

[21:40] <ozzy> Anyway, glad I can continue experimenting

[21:41] <ozzy> Thanks again - have a good night!

[21:41] <tony-o_> it is likely the same problem you experienced

[21:41] *** squashable6 left
[21:41] *** Cabanossi left
[21:42] <ozzy> then perhaps it's worth mentioning that a zef-update solves that issue; without your help I would not have figured it out

[21:42] <tony-o_> the way that all works was refactored a couple of months ago so an external outage didn't make zef unusuable

[21:42] <tony-o_> ah, you needed that after the upgrade of zef

[21:43] *** squashable6 joined
[21:43] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[21:44] *** Cabanossi joined
[21:46] <ozzy> I'm sure I don't understand the full picture. I was simply triggered by the statement in the issue that any module added after May 21 would not be available via zef.

[21:46] <ozzy> I assumed this was the cause of me not being able to find my own module.

[21:46] <ozzy> But the update fixed that, obviously.

[21:54] *** ozzy left
[22:12] *** Kaiepi left
[22:13] *** Kaiepi joined
[22:18] *** Kaiepi left
[22:19] *** Kaiepi joined
[22:22] <AlexDaniel> Kaiepi: I think you need autojoin for #raku and #raku-dev :)

[22:23] <Kaiepi> ah

[22:23] <Kaiepi> yeah i do lol

[22:23] *** Kaiepi left
[22:23] *** pmurias left
[22:25] *** pmurias joined
[22:25] <AlexDaniel> nine: can you move camelia to #raku? Evalable will keep answering messages here

[22:28] *** Xliff left
[22:29] *** pecastro left
[22:53] *** pmurias left
[22:59] *** patrickb left
[23:03] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> What's the proper file extension now?

[23:03] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> .rk?

[23:06] <AlexDaniel> .p6

[23:06] <AlexDaniel> for now

[23:22] *** bitmap joined
[23:28] *** bitmap left
[23:34] *** pmurias joined
[23:35] *** Sgeo_ joined
[23:39] *** Sgeo__ left
