[00:05] *** AlexDaniel left
[00:38] *** AlexDaniel joined
[00:40] *** MasterDuke joined
[00:42] *** MasterDuke_ joined
[00:42] *** MasterDuke_ left
[00:42] *** MasterDuke_ joined
[00:42] *** zachk left
[00:45] *** MasterDuke left
[00:46] *** SergiusUA left
[00:48] *** w_richard_w joined
[00:48] *** hythm joined
[00:49] <hythm> p6: my @a = 'a' xx 3 xx 3; @a[0;0,1] = < a b >; how can I modify [0; 0,1] slice?

[00:49] <camelia> rakudo-moar 17c9d88f2: OUTPUT: «5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>␤Two terms in a row␤at <tmp>:1␤------> 3,1] = < a b >; how can I modify [0; 0,1]7⏏5 slice?␤    expecting any of:␤        infix␤        infix stopper␤        postfix␤        statement …»

[00:49] <hythm> p6: my @a = 'a' xx 3 xx 3; @a[0;0,1] = < a b >; # how can I modify [0; 0,1] slice?

[00:49] <camelia> rakudo-moar 17c9d88f2: OUTPUT: «Cannot modify an immutable Str (a)␤  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1␤␤»

[00:55] *** w_richard_w left
[00:56] *** w_richard_w joined
[00:57] *** kini left
[00:58] <AlexDaniel> hythm: that's exactly how you do it

[00:58] <AlexDaniel> m: my @a = [‘a’ xx 3] xx 3; @a[0;0,1] = 1, 2; say @a

[00:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar 17c9d88f2: OUTPUT: «[[1 2 a] [a a a] [a a a]]␤»

[00:58] <AlexDaniel> m: my @a = [‘a’ xx 3] xx 3; @a[0;0,1] = < a b >; say @a

[00:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar 17c9d88f2: OUTPUT: «[[a b a] [a a a] [a a a]]␤»

[00:59] <AlexDaniel> though I'm a bit surprised that it works

[01:01] <hythm> Thanks AlexDaniel

[01:01] *** kurahaupo left
[01:02] <AlexDaniel> m: my @a = [‘a’ xx 3] xx 3; @a[0..2;1] = < x y >; say @a

[01:02] <camelia> rakudo-moar 17c9d88f2: OUTPUT: «[[a x a] [a y a] [a (Any) a]]␤»

[01:03] *** kurahaupo joined
[01:03] <AlexDaniel> m: my @a = [‘a’ xx 3] xx 3; @a[0..1;1..2] = <k l m n>; say @a

[01:03] <camelia> rakudo-moar 17c9d88f2: OUTPUT: «[[a k l] [a m n] [a a a]]␤»

[01:04] *** kini joined
[01:04] *** kurahaupo left
[01:05] *** kurahaupo joined
[01:07] *** hythm left
[01:11] <AlexDaniel> where do we submit solutions for weekly challenges?

[01:14] *** lucasb left
[01:16] *** random_yanek left
[01:21] *** hythm joined
[01:24] *** AlexDaniel left
[01:28] *** random_yanek joined
[01:28] *** hythm_ joined
[01:29] *** hythm left
[01:42] *** zacts joined
[01:43] *** zacts left
[01:58] *** netrino_ joined
[01:58] *** netrino left
[02:02] *** leont left
[02:23] *** MidCheck joined
[02:26] *** Manifest0 left
[02:48] *** netrino_ left
[03:06] *** kurahaupo left
[03:07] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:10] *** kurahaupo left
[03:10] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:16] *** Manifest0 joined
[03:21] *** ufobat_ joined
[03:22] *** hythm_ left
[03:25] *** ufobat__ left
[03:31] *** kst joined
[03:34] *** aindilis left
[03:37] *** aborazmeh left
[03:45] *** mowcat left
[03:51] *** ExtraCrispy left
[03:56] *** yht joined
[04:02] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[04:23] *** xinming joined
[04:24] *** aindilis joined
[04:25] *** xinming_ left
[04:27] *** MidCheck left
[04:31] *** Guest34016 left
[04:31] *** success joined
[04:31] *** success is now known as Guest46123

[04:34] *** Cabanossi left
[04:44] *** Cabanossi joined
[05:04] *** sno left
[05:10] *** kurahaupo left
[05:47] *** curan joined
[05:50] *** andrzejku joined
[05:57] *** MidCheck joined
[05:59] *** cpage_ joined
[06:00] *** sauvin joined
[06:01] *** cpage left
[06:01] *** cpage_ is now known as cpage

[06:15] *** molaf joined
[06:21] *** jmerelo joined
[06:22] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[06:22] <releasable6> jmerelo, Next release in ≈25 days and ≈12 hours. 0 blockers. 0 out of 118 commits logged

[06:22] <releasable6> jmerelo, Details: https://gist.github.com/965e09c4250b60f0287d91b5b6c0ec2f

[06:27] *** robertle left
[06:28] *** molaf left
[06:39] *** andrzejku left
[06:58] *** andrzejku joined
[06:59] <andrzejku> lookatme_q, hey

[07:14] *** lookatme_q left
[07:15] *** lookatme_q joined
[07:20] <andrzejku> lookatme_q, hey D:

[07:31] *** domidumont joined
[07:34] *** antoniogamiz joined
[07:34] <antoniogamiz> \o/

[07:34] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: hey

[07:35] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: how's your application going?

[07:35] <antoniogamiz> jmerelo: this is the video I told you about https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l0zPwhgWTgM&feature=youtu.be

[07:36] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: nice!

[07:36] <antoniogamiz> antoniogamiz: good, I still need to make some changes and close some issues :D

[07:36] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: great!

[07:36] <antoniogamiz> I'll try to send the proposal this morning too

[07:37] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: it will be the first.

[07:38] <jmerelo> We are still accepting mentors, just in case anyone's interested. But we are more interested in getting students to sign up now :-)

[07:38] <antoniogamiz> I hope it isnt the last c:

[07:38] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: me too :-)

[07:43] *** abraxxa joined
[07:45] *** sno joined
[07:46] *** sno left
[07:49] *** w_richard_w left
[07:52] *** patrickb joined
[08:03] *** xinming left
[08:04] *** ravenousmoose joined
[08:07] *** MidCheck left
[08:10] <lookatme_q> andrzejku, hey

[08:14] <tyil> weekly: https://www.reddit.com/r/shittyprogramming/comments/b588pb/snake_case_no_thanks_i_use_space%E3%85%A4case/ejbsc7i/

[08:14] <notable6> tyil, Noted!

[08:24] <jmerelo> tyil: hangul filler FTW

[08:24] <tyil> :>

[08:25] <tyil> from all the concepts in p6, I still find grammars to be the hardest to grasp

[08:27] *** [particle]1 joined
[08:27] <moritz> tyil: have you read my book about grammars?

[08:28] <tyil> I actually have a physical copy of it, I'm slowly working through it and learning new things about it

[08:29] <antoniogamiz> moritz: thanks for adding a brief explanation in perl6/doc/lib :)

[08:30] *** [particle] left
[08:35] <moritz> you're welcome

[08:35] *** dakkar joined
[08:44] <masak> agreed. grammars are hard.

[08:45] <masak> I've started in on moritz++' book, found it to be very lucid, but then (ashamed to say) been distracted like a squirrel along the way and somehow not finished it

[08:45] <masak> I'm going on a business trip on Friday; guess I should bring it on the plane. then I will have no excuse not to finish it ;)

[08:48] <jmerelo> masak: we'll get you an upgrade on the return trip if you do.

[08:53] *** rindolf joined
[08:53] *** ChoHag_ left
[08:54] *** ChoHag joined
[08:54] *** rindolf left
[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: 5 commits pushed by (JJ Merelo)++

[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: a066e2ed3f | Reflow and some clarifications

[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: 8c8c8d68ab | Documenting all the .new cantidates for Blob refs #2694

[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: a87cda0486 | Expands allocate refs #2694

[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: 3911622000 | Changes a few (non defined) return types

[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: 49c6dc060f | Added (undocumented) blob.decode methods refs #2694

[08:58] <Geth> ¦ doc/master: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/compare/a2254ac37c25...49c6dc060fbd

[09:02] *** rindolf joined
[09:03] * masak .oO( First-Class Grammars )

[09:04] <masak> I'm thinking about grammars quite a bit lately. specifically, I'm trying to attack `is parsed` in 007, at least to the point of making a dent in the problem.

[09:04] <masak> as y'all probably know, `is parsed` is the thing you can put on macros so that they extend the current parser's grammar

[09:04] * jmerelo does not know that.

[09:20] *** patrickb left
[09:23] <masak> jmerelo: let's say `until` loops weren't a part of the language already. by defining a macro `statement:until` and giving it an appropriate `is parsed` regex, one could add such a statement.

[09:23] <masak> I'm trying to build a spike/proof-of-concept where that works

[09:24] <jmerelo> masak: that would be awesome.

[09:24] *** netrino joined
[09:25] <masak> my thinking-out-loud can be found here: https://github.com/masak/007/issues/485

[09:27] *** kensanata joined
[09:40] *** aborazmeh joined
[09:40] *** aborazmeh left
[09:40] *** aborazmeh joined
[09:41] <kawaii> releasable6: status

[09:41] <releasable6> kawaii, Next release in ≈25 days and ≈9 hours. 0 blockers. 0 out of 118 commits logged

[09:41] <releasable6> kawaii, Details: https://gist.github.com/a92198dd284503cb6860c4ff2e5945af

[09:45] <tyil> tony-o: Interesting to see that you had a similar plan as me, but you seemed to have released it just a week earlier :p

[09:49] <tyil> tony-o: in case you are interested in my approach so far: https://git.tyil.nl/tyil/build-perl6

[09:50] *** reach_satori left
[09:52] *** robertle joined
[09:54] *** MilkmanDan left
[09:56] *** MilkmanDan joined
[09:58] *** leont joined
[10:01] *** yoleaux left
[10:02] *** dpk left
[10:04] *** dpk joined
[10:06] *** pecastro joined
[10:08] *** netrino_ joined
[10:09] *** netrino left
[10:12] *** andrzejku left
[10:12] *** reach_satori joined
[10:17] *** netrino joined
[10:18] *** netrino_ left
[10:20] *** reach_satori left
[10:21] *** reach_satori joined
[10:28] *** Black_Ribbon left
[10:35] *** leont left
[10:37] *** aborazmeh left
[10:49] *** andrzejku joined
[10:55] *** reach_satori left
[10:57] *** reach_satori joined
[11:06] <Geth> ¦ doc: 6c01240a9e | Antonio++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | resources/i18n/es/README.es.md

[11:06] <Geth> ¦ doc: typo

[11:06] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/6c01240a9e

[11:08] *** reach_satori_ joined
[11:08] *** reach_satori left
[11:29] *** patrickb joined
[11:35] *** Actualeyes left
[11:40] *** zakharyas joined
[11:41] *** reach_satori_ left
[11:47] *** pecastro left
[11:47] <tyil> heh, it seems nqp-m is a bash script, which is not installed by default on Alpine, making Rakudo fail to build (but moarvm and nqp both build fine)

[11:48] <tyil> the error was the confusing part of it all, saying /usr/local/bin/nqp-m did not exist, when it clearly did exist

[11:49] <timotimo> oh, *bash* is not installed?

[11:49] <tyil> yes

[11:49] <timotimo> d'oh :D

[11:50] <tyil> bash has been added as a build-time dep, trying to rebuild the docker image :>

[11:51] <timotimo> it should be possible to just run it as a sh script, right? we'd only have to change the create-nqp-launcher script or whatever it's called

[11:51] <lizmat>  /bin/sh works on MacOs

[11:51] *** kerrhau left
[11:51] <tyil> theoretically one could call it as `sh /usr/local/bin/nqp-m` I believe, or the shebang could be altered

[11:51] <tyil> I haven't looked into the script itself

[11:52] <timotimo> yeah i was thinking we should change the shebang

[11:52] <tyil> isn't MacOS's /bin/sh secretly /bin/bash anyway

[11:52] <El_Che> tyil: if you get some expertise in Alpine repo, I would love to have alpine repos for rakudo-pkg (all the other distros have repos already)

[11:52] <timotimo> exec /home/timo/perl6/install/bin/moar --execname="$0" --libpath=/home/timo/perl6/install/share/nqp/lib /home/timo/perl6/install/share/nqp/lib/nqp.moarvm "$@"

[11:52] <timotimo> that's the contents of the script on my machine

[11:52] <timotimo> it's barely got anything bash-specific in it, it's so simple

[11:53] <tyil> El_Che: possibly, for now I just want to finish up my own nightly builds of multiple Docker containers, so I can compete with tony-o who beat me to it by a week :(

[11:53] <tyil> Alpine repos should be straightforward from what I hear, so that may be an interesting side project for next weekend

[11:53] <jmerelo> It would be interesting to look at the people making questions in StackOverflow and the languages they come from. Theoretically you can do that using data.stackexchange, but, well, you have to do it...

[11:54] <El_Che> if we had a alpine repo, you just could "apk add" the latest pkg instead of building :)

[11:54] <tyil> yes

[11:54] <tyil> more support for Perl 6 in base repos is better than having simplified builds I think

[11:54] <tyil> but, it's building on Alpine :D

[11:54] <jmerelo> tyil: that shouldn't be a problem... I have been building Alpine docker containers for a long time without a problem. bash is aliases, also. If you use some specific bash thing, maybe...

[11:55] <tyil> my debian-based Docker image is 97.3MB, my alpine-based Docker image is 46.4MB

[11:55] <El_Che> tyil: in case you need to figure out the dependencies, you'll find them here: https://github.com/nxadm/rakudo-pkg/blob/master/docker/Dockerfile-alpine-x86_64-3.8

[11:56] *** ctilmes joined
[11:57] <ctilmes> There are alpine packages in the 'testing' aports branch: https://github.com/alpinelinux/aports/tree/master/testing/rakudo

[11:57] <ctilmes> I was having trouble with 2019.03, but they are on 2018.11

[11:58] <tyil> ctilmes: what kind of troubles?

[11:58] <tyil> I just built latest master succesfully on Alpine

[11:58] <tyil> El_Che: https://git.tyil.nl/docker/perl6/src/branch/master/docker/alpine that's the Dockerfile I've just used

[11:58] <ctilmes> moarvm, nqp, rakudo worked fine, but I got errors (actually warnings -- it worked, but output lots of stuff) with zef

[11:58] <El_Che> I want to tracks for rakudo: a slower distro track (we're getting there almost on all distro), and the monthly updates for people that want/need the latest or run an old LTS distro

[11:59] <tyil> El_Che: I thought Rakudo* exists for that reason

[11:59] <ctilmes> I'm not quite sure how to package zef for a distribution

[11:59] <El_Che> tyil: I don't have a usecase for Rakudo Star

[11:59] <ctilmes> Advice welcome: https://github.com/alpinelinux/aports/tree/master/testing/zef

[11:59] <El_Che> tyil: it does not fit my workflow or thinking

[12:00] <tyil> El_Che: as in, the slower distro track is Rakudo Star

[12:00] <El_Che> tyil: no, not at all. The slower distro track are distro packages

[12:00] <tyil> even slower than the 3-month schedule, then?

[12:00] <El_Che> depending on the distro, yes

[12:00] <tyil> fair enough

[12:01] <ctilmes> If you start up a stock alpine docker, you can just run "echo http://dl-cdn.alpinelinux.org/alpine/edge/testing >> /etc/apk/repositories && apk add -U zef' and have functioning perl 6

[12:02] <tyil> I read in the p6weekly that Rakudo is relocatable, does this mean all parts are now relocatable? (MoarVM, NQP and Rakudo)

[12:02] <El_Che> tyil: great, multi image build. Haven't moved to that because our build infra at work does not support it yet

[12:02] <El_Che> will soonish

[12:02] <ctilmes> If enough people call for it, the alpine folks will promote it from testing to community, then you'll be able to juse 'apk add rakudo' or 'apk add zef'

[12:02] <tyil> removes a lot of "cleaning up" effort for me, which helps tremendously with cutting down image size

[12:02] <El_Che> ctilmes: I add zef to the rakudo pkg itself

[12:03] <jmerelo> ctilmes: how do we do that?

[12:04] <ctilmes> I'd like to keep things as modular as possible so images are as small as possible.  (alpine philosophy)

[12:04] <antoniogamiz> proposal sent, time to make perl6 weekly challenge

[12:04] <ctilmes> It was working pretty well until this latest release

[12:04] *** pecastro joined
[12:04] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: good luck!

[12:04] <El_Che> the usecase of a usefull rakudo without zef is pretty close to zero, imho

[12:04] <ctilmes> I just set it aside -- need to get back to it to figure out what is happening

[12:04] <tyil> El_Che: I felt the same way when I was deciding on whether to add Zef to my images

[12:05] <El_Che> the REPL autocomplete is more tricky though

[12:05] <El_Che> been thinking about that as well

[12:05] <jmerelo> GSoC mentors: you can now check out existing proposals and interact with them. It should appear in your panel. You can *star* it or ignore it

[12:05] <ctilmes> Eventually I'd like to get to the point where each ecosystem package is its own alpine package, with all the dependencies laid out, but that will take a while

[12:06] <El_Che> ctilmes: that would be great

[12:06] <jmerelo> tyil: you're in, take a look at the proposal. In this phase everyone can participate, even if it's not directly related to the ideas they have proposed.

[12:06] <antoniogamiz> ctilmes: that would be extremely awesome :oooo

[12:06] <antoniogamiz> like node projects more or lesS?

[12:07] <ctilmes> My dockerfile should just say "apk add cro" and it will pull in everything it needs

[12:07] <jmerelo> ctilmes: would that be automatic? Or would it need someone to package them like in Debian?

[12:07] <ctilmes> META6.json is doing a very nice job for Perl 6 dependencies and auto-building, but we need to get the library dependencies in there too

[12:08] <ctilmes> This stuff needs to mature: https://deathbyperl6.com/perl-toolchain-summit-2018-meta6-dependency-hello/

[12:08] <tyil> jmerelo: will do!

[12:08] <jmerelo> ctilmes: are there any plans for a 2019 PTS?

[12:08] <ctilmes> jmerelo: I don't know

[12:08] <jmerelo> tyil: thanks!

[12:08] <tyil> ctilmes: I have thought about making Perl 6 modules available in Gentoo under dev-perl6

[12:09] <tyil> but haven't really looked in to it, as I didn't want to depend on zef doing the actual hard work, and I couldn't wrap my head around what it's actually doing to perform a succesful install

[12:09] <lizmat> jmerelo ctilmes http://act.qa-hackathon.org/pts2019/

[12:10] <jmerelo> lizmat: will have to miss it... I would _so_ have liked to attend...

[12:10] <tyil> I think depending on zef for this isn't too bad nowadays, though

[12:10] <tyil> maybe I should give it a second thought

[12:11] <ctilmes> for my packages, I know what the native library dependencies are, but I haven't yet put them into META6.json, trying to understand the right way to do so

[12:11] <timotimo> if zef were modular, we could have a minimal zef that doesn't know about ecosystems and any build script would just wget/curl the right file and zef install it from disk

[12:11] <jmerelo> timotimo: also it would just use META6.json as a cpanfile.

[12:12] <timotimo> if it only looked at the meta6.json it would need the ecosystem to find the package files, though

[12:12] <jmerelo> timotimo: (you can do that now if you insert a series of dummy entries, which are compulsory)

[12:12] <timotimo> i'm not sure i know what you mean. but also i don't know what a cpanfile does

[12:13] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: please use category "perl6", not "documentation". Or use documentation as secondary. Or better yet, tertiary. Secondary would be "new feature"

[12:13] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: wait, I can do that on the proposal itself.

[12:14] <antoniogamiz> jmerelo: ah ok then are you going to do iy?

[12:14] <antoniogamiz> it*

[12:14] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: done already

[12:15] <antoniogamiz> jmerelo: thanks :)

[12:15] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: wait, I can do that too...

[12:15] <jmerelo> done

[12:16] <antoniogamiz> mmmm it looks like that I cannot edit my proposal information in gsoc page

[12:16] <antoniogamiz> ah ok I've already found the way haaha

[12:19] <ctilmes> timotimo: re minimal zef, I use "install-dist.p6", in rakudo/tools -- seems to be the 'minimal zef'

[12:22] <timotimo> oh, ok!

[12:24] <ctilmes> If we had a solid way to express native library dependencies in META6.json, it seems like a script could turn META6.json into a reasonable alpine APKBUILD for every package in the ecosystem, at least enough for human review/fixing to be reasonable

[12:25] <ctilmes> (same for debian/redhat/etc.)

[12:28] *** netrino left
[12:31] *** MasterDuke_ left
[12:31] <tyil> ctilmes: in the original spec for META6.jsons there is a way to express native library dependencies

[12:32] <tyil> it's not supported by zef (yet?)

[12:32] <jmerelo> tyil: well, there's a way to support them... Only it's not published and is apparently experimental

[12:33] <tyil> last time I tried to follow the S<whatever> spec on META files I got some big errors from zef, and was told that trying anything not explicitly documented on docs.perl6.org with regards to the meta file is completely incorrect

[12:33] <jmerelo> tyil: here's the issue I created https://github.com/ugexe/zef/issues/281 Some form of dependency specification is used in Inline::Python (which, of course, needs Python)

[12:36] <tyil> jmerelo: yeah, last time I tried to use things like that zef broke for me and the maintainers told me I should not try anything from the S<whatever> files, because they weren't any indication of what zef is supposed to do

[12:37] <tyil> so I've stopped trying to do anything fancy with zef after that

[12:37] <ctilmes> tyil: I experimented with this: https://deathbyperl6.com/perl-toolchain-summit-2018-meta6-dependency-hello/

[12:37] <tyil> the only addition I have in my META6 files is a meta-version key

[12:37] <ctilmes> but it was easier to just manually install the dependencies

[12:37] <ctilmes> I don't think it is mature enough yet

[12:37] <tyil> so my modules will have an easy-to-check key if any backwards incompatability ever occurs

[12:39] *** Actualeyes joined
[12:40] <patrickb> I didn't backlog entirely.

[12:41] <patrickb> But I think I introduced a dependency in the nqp runner script on bash

[12:41] <patrickb> tyil: &

[12:41] <patrickb> ^

[12:42] <patrickb> It needs to retrieve the directory the script is located in. The logic to do that uses bash specifics.

[12:43] <tyil> patrickb: good to know :)

[12:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: 6523fbf8c2 | (Christopher Bottoms)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[12:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: linked tr/// description to resulting StrDistance

[12:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/6523fbf8c2

[12:43] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[12:43] <patrickb> I'm very open for something that works on other shells too. My sh-foo is just very limited and googling did not result in something robust that works on all shells...

[12:45] <patrickb> It's the same with all the runner scripts we have, so the debugger wrappers for perl6 have the same problem.

[12:45] <tyil> ROOT=$(CDPATH="" cd -- "$(dirname -- "$0")/.." && pwd -P) # this seems to work for me in posix sh

[12:46] <patrickb> perl6 itself doesn't have that problem, because since very recently is a real executable.

[12:46] <tyil> woops, without a ..

[12:46] <tyil> $(CDPATH="" cd -- "$(dirname -- "$0")" && pwd -P)

[12:47] <patrickb> tyil: It's a non trivial problem. Resolving symlinks, not depending on external programs that might be missing and so on.

[12:47] *** andrzejku left
[12:47] <tyil> yes

[12:47] *** pmurias joined
[12:47] <tyil> resolving symlinks is what pwd -P does

[12:47] <tyil> dirname, cd and pwd are all POSIX specified tools

[12:47] <pmurias> jmerelo: we only have one proposal thus far? :(

[12:49] <patrickb> tyil: If you like you could cross compare with this: https://stackoverflow.com/a/246128/1975049

[12:50] <tyil> patrickb: I don't mind that much to depend on bash, I just didnt know about it, and couldnt find any documentation specifying bash was needed

[12:50] *** netrino joined
[12:50] <patrickb> That's where I copied the current solution from. There is some explanation why such a long solution was used.

[12:50] <ugexe> timotimo: but zef is modular

[12:50] <patrickb> I don't like the dependency at all. :-P

[12:50] <ugexe> you don't need any ecosystems if you e.g. supply the url to a distribution and all dependencies on the cli

[12:50] <tyil> patrickb: there's a similar question on SO about doing it in POSIX sh

[12:51] *** netrino left
[12:51] <tyil> patrickb: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29832037/how-to-get-script-directory-in-posix-sh

[12:51] <ugexe> if zef was to just download some distribution and has to run a script to find the next dependency then you have a pretty frail system that cant determine anything without running ahead of time

[12:51] <tyil> that's where I got mine from :>

[12:51] <timotimo> ugexe: right! that's true! so all you really need to do is rip out the modules from lib/ and from the provides section of the meta6.json?

[12:51] <ugexe> sure

[12:53] <ugexe> this is why Build.pm is a bit of a disaster because no reasonable build graph can be created when Build.pm might do literally anything when it gets run, including install modules or modify the META6.json that zef has already read and parsed

[12:53] <timotimo> true

[12:54] *** john_parr left
[12:56] <pmurias> ugexe: how widespread is Build.pm use?

[12:56] <tadzik> (sorry :P)

[12:56] <tadzik> but hey, it has its uses

[12:57] <timotimo> downloading dlls from the internet when you're on windows for example

[12:57] * tadzik giggles at https://github.com/perl6/gtk-simple/blob/master/Build.pm#L125

[12:57] <ugexe> pmurias: quite a bit

[12:57] <timotimo> haha, that can probably go now :D

[12:58] *** john_parr joined
[13:03] *** antoniogamiz left
[13:06] <ugexe> even having Build.pm in the root of a distribution is difficult to deal with. what should `-I .` do when a META6.json is in the same directory since Build.pm doesnt get listed in provides?

[13:07] <ugexe> should it just include Build.pm in the search path anyway, meaning the distribution could act different pre and post install?

[13:07] <ugexe> probably not. but how do you get at Build.pm if rakudo reads from the META6.json?

[13:08] <ugexe> (these problems are solved already fwiw. they are example of how complicated this really is based on only surface level problems)

[13:08] <timotimo> aye

[13:33] *** ravenousmoose_ joined
[13:33] *** ravenousmoose left
[13:33] *** jmerelo left
[13:36] <pmurias> ugexe: couldn't the build graph undecidability be imposing limits on what Build.pm can do?

[13:37] <pmurias> ugexe: OTOH maybe it would be better to replace it with something limited rather than do a lot of deprecation and small tweaks

[13:40] *** netrino joined
[13:40] *** netrino left
[13:41] <ugexe> pmurias: Build.pm api is just `Build.new.build($cwd)`

[13:44] <ugexe> https://github.com/niner/Distribution-Builder-MakeFromJSON is a limited builder type thing

[13:46] <ugexe> https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/tools/install-dist.p6#L78

[13:46] *** AlexDaniel joined
[13:46] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: ah, releasable needs this commit: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/9392cbb3fbac8495c03fc198037e3cf34b1f5132

[13:47] <AlexDaniel> I mean, it's already there, but I think I'm using an older version of whateverable…

[13:47] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: oh, by the way, you probably need access to one more thing…

[13:47] <kawaii> Sounds exciting

[13:48] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: ssh [email@hidden.address]
[13:48] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: it's my server where whateverables run

[13:49] <kawaii> Yep, works!

[13:49] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: if it looks like a dumpster to you, then you understand it right! I need to clean it up, hopefully I'll have more time for that now…

[13:50] * AlexDaniel looks at `git status`

[13:50] <AlexDaniel> … oh noes…

[13:53] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: also check this out: https://github.com/perl6/Blin/commit/6da7c3c36e271129e060ace8f20323634de93668

[13:53] <AlexDaniel> I wish this existed a year ago…

[13:54] <kawaii> Ah, very nice!

[13:55] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: when it comes to testing some common module or two, I usually do locally (cuz I rouitinely install these modules anyway)

[13:55] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: so maybe you should try this thing out

[13:56] <AlexDaniel> or, well, make it work with docker :)

[13:57] <AlexDaniel> maybe it already does?

[13:57] <kawaii> AlexDaniel: does `--custom-script=` only allow for a single value? (i.e. a single script?)

[13:57] <tyil>   /b 49

[13:57] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: no, you can do --custom-script=foo.p6 --custom-script=bar.p6

[13:58] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: in fact, maybe it already works if you pass “--custom-script=foo.p6” as a module to your docker thing

[13:58] <AlexDaniel> as long as you can get that file over the wall xD

[13:58] *** lucasb joined
[13:58] <kawaii> Well, I'm waiting for the star team to publish 2019.03 images before I merge my Docker commit

[13:59] <kawaii> since zef is borked it seems in that image and I haven't found time to see why or how to fix it

[13:59] * lizmat clickbaits https://gfldex.wordpress.com/2019/03/25/i-like-rakudo-100x/

[14:00] * tyil clicks the bait

[14:00] * lizmat intended to clickbait https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2019/03/25/2019-12-cool-truck/

[14:00] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: have you tried the release candidate? https://www.hankache.com/rakudostar/

[14:00] <lizmat> oops

[14:00] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: ahhh, for docker… ok nevermind

[14:01] <AlexDaniel> .oO( unclicks the bait? )

[14:01] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: where do I submit solutions though, I don't understand that whole weekly thing

[14:01] <AlexDaniel> weekly challenge thing I mean

[14:01] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: for the challenge you mean?

[14:01] <AlexDaniel> yeah

[14:01] *** squashable6 left
[14:01] *** cpan-p6 joined
[14:02] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Term-TablePrint-p6 (1.4.1) by 03KUERBIS

[14:02] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Term-Choose-p6 (1.5.1) by 03KUERBIS

[14:02] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Term-Choose-Util-p6 (1.2.1) by 03KUERBIS

[14:02] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Term-TablePrint-p6 (1.4.0) by 03KUERBIS

[14:02] *** cpan-p6 left
[14:02] *** tyil left
[14:02] *** discord6 left
[14:02] <AlexDaniel> oh noes

[14:02] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: ??

[14:03] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: perhaps https://perlweeklychallenge.org/faq/ contains an answer ?

[14:03] *** squashable6 joined
[14:03] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[14:03] <AlexDaniel> hold on let me remember the command to unkline people…

[14:03] <lizmat> ah, the discord bridge  

[14:03] *** ChanServ sets mode: +o AlexDaniel

[14:04] *** discord6 joined
[14:04] *** e joined
[14:04] *** discord6 is now known as tyilanmenyn

[14:04] <tyilanmenyn> stupid Sigyn

[14:04] *** tyilanmenyn is now known as Guest39466

[14:04] *** cpan-p6 joined
[14:04] *** tyildesu joined
[14:04] <AlexDaniel> mst: we just had a little accident here

[14:05] * tyildesu sighs

[14:06] <AlexDaniel> I told Sigyn to unkline cpan-p6 and that worked

[14:07] <tyildesu> let's see

[14:08] *** cpan-p6_ joined
[14:08] *** cpan-p6 left
[14:08] <tyildesu> the bot shouldn't be spamming in the first place, but it oftentimes dies because it starts using way too much memory (a known problem with HTTP::UserAgent iirc)

[14:08] *** tyildesu is now known as tyil

[14:08] <AlexDaniel> ooooooooh, now I see what happened, yeah…

[14:09] *** ChanServ sets mode: -o AlexDaniel

[14:09] <tyil> apparently its because it doesn't have a strict hostname

[14:10] <tyil> it can connect from any minion\d+.tyil.net

[14:10] <AlexDaniel> before it was klined it was sending messages once per second

[14:10] <AlexDaniel> just add a delay maybe?

[14:10] <AlexDaniel> or maybe group messages into one

[14:10] <tyil> I already added a .8s delay

[14:10] <AlexDaniel> if the author is the same

[14:10] <tyil> I can increase the delay if needs be

[14:12] <AlexDaniel> “New modules released to CPAN! Term-TablePrint-p6 (1.4.1), Term-Choose-p6 (1.5.1), Term-Choose-Util-p6 (1.2.1), Term-TablePrint-p6 (1.4.0) by KUERBIS”

[14:12] <tyil> that's a lot harder to make than increasing the delay

[14:12] <AlexDaniel> you can try increasing the delay :)

[14:12] <tyil> preferably I'd have Sigyn be a little less aggressive, but that's seemingly impossible

[14:12] *** macheen joined
[14:13] <e> tyil: it's related to repetitiveness. i wouldn't try to get around it by adding more delays. i have widened sigyn's mask for it

[14:13] <tyil> thanks e

[14:14] *** Guest39466 left
[14:14] <AlexDaniel> e: thank you!

[14:14] <evalable6> AlexDaniel, rakudo-moar 89b446770: OUTPUT: «(exit code 1) 04===SORRY!04=== Error while compiling /tmp/_0DRbBApae␤Bogus p…»

[14:14] <evalable6> AlexDaniel, Full output: https://gist.github.com/6f36d7a9da38175b443041bfb9f44407

[14:14] <AlexDaniel> oh well…

[14:17] *** MidCheck joined
[14:17] *** zakharyas left
[14:21] *** cpan-p6_ left
[14:22] *** cpan-p6 joined
[14:22] *** andrzejku joined
[14:22] <mst> of course, the real solution here would be for people to warn us *before* changing the hostname, because then we can adjust sigyn before that happens

[14:23] <mst> or get the bot cloaked, which would just require tyil to talk to his GC

[14:23] <mst> but that's me, and he won't speak to me anymore because apparently "not particularly enjoying his spirited defence of using n*gg*r in a cpan directory name" made me a big meanie or something

[14:24] <mst> so honestly at this point my primary recommendation would be "get the cpan bot run by somebody less prone to throwing their toys out of the pram and more prone to co-operating with the people trying to help"

[14:25] *** aindilis left
[14:26] <mst> AlexDaniel: ^^

[14:31] <AlexDaniel> uh… I kinda hoped we were over it…

[14:31] *** aindilis joined
[14:31] <AlexDaniel> lessons were learned, no?

[14:33] <mst> not by him so far as I can tell, he still isn't speaking to me and my last indirect interaction with him was dealing with the fallout from him causing mdk a bunch of trouble as YAPC::EU organiser

[14:35] *** macheen left
[14:36] <mst> I'll assume "we" are over it when he actually politely asks me for help with something, rather than only ever coming to my attention when he's causing drama

[14:37] *** aindilis left
[14:38] <AlexDaniel> tyil: getting a cloak makes sense to me, especially given that you already run two bots and one of them being a bridge is somewhat important

[14:39] <AlexDaniel> tyil: and resolving your interaction problem with mst is probably even more important, so that we can all work together

[14:40] <tyil> everytime I've tried that has resulted in unnecesary drama, hence I've given up on that and just have him filtered nowadays

[14:41] <tyil> looking at the petty remarks just now doesn't really inspire me to give it another go

[14:42] <tyil> I don't mind getting a cloak for the bots, though

[14:42] <tyil> if that would resolve the issue

[14:43] <AlexDaniel> I don't think that's going to work like that…

[14:44] <mst> I'd've characterised my remarks as obnoxious rather than petty, FWIW

[14:44] <tyil> I'm open for tips to improve the bots, but I'm not open to have someone make petty remarks, insults and public humilition from a chanop or ircop because he simply doesn't like me, I've said this before and I still stand by it

[14:44] <AlexDaniel> I didn't say it'd be easy to resolve that, but IMO it's necessary for all the great things we'll do later

[14:46] <tyil> mst: I don't speak to you because of your behaviour towards me, and I would like to keep as much drama out of #perl6 as possible

[14:46] <tyil> as for "causing mdk a bunch of trouble", I did nothing of the sort, I asked him for information on a topic that I found important to discuss

[14:46] <AlexDaniel> maybe you two can have a peaceful conversation about that in PM?

[14:47] <tyil> yeah, I've tried that before, then he casually banned me from #perl6 because I wasn't groveling enough

[14:47] <AlexDaniel> look, we all have shitty days sometimes… mst maybe more often than others

[14:47] <AlexDaniel> try again, perhaps?

[14:48] <mst> my apologies for upsetting you while trying to explain that "I call my black friends n*gg*r and they don't mind" didn't mean it was a good idea to upload a directory called that to cpan

[14:48] <tyil> he just made up a bunch of mistruths to paint me in a bad spot

[14:48] <tyil> I don't see what another try would do

[14:48] <mst> and, I will admit, given I normally hear that argument from alt-reich idiots and trump supporters shortly before I defenestrate them, I may have overreacted a bit

[14:49] <tyil> and he strongly believes that twisting my words for everything I say is a good way to indicate that the real problem is me

[14:49] <tyil> since what he put in quotes is nothing *at all* to what I said

[14:50] <tyil> everytime I try to give him a chance he just goes out of his way to be as condescending and untruthful as possible

[14:50] <AlexDaniel> :S

[14:50] <tyil> there's no discussion with someone like that, so I'll keep him filtered again

[14:50] <AlexDaniel> don't do that

[14:50] <tyil> it's just causing drama every single time

[14:50] <mst> <tyil> I call my black friends niggers, yet somehow they never yell at me at what a filthy racist I am

[14:50] <AlexDaniel> being assholes to each other is better than not being able to hear each other at all…

[14:50] <mst> I'm sorry if you felt I misrepresented that sentence

[14:50] <mst> but please don't accuse me of lying

[14:51] <tyil> AlexDaniel: except that I get banned for it...

[14:51] <AlexDaniel> sure but now you're getting banned because you can't get a cloak :)

[14:51] * lizmat sighs

[14:52] <lizmat> and goes afk&

[14:52] <tyil> AlexDaniel: yes, but at least this time it's not foregone by a couple hours of mst insulting me and lying about me

[14:57] *** cpan-p6 left
[14:58] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:02] *** zakharyas joined
[15:03] *** MilkmanDan left
[15:05] <kawaii> I leave for one hour and come back to this

[15:13] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:13] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:13] *** andrzejku left
[15:16] *** jeromelanteri joined
[15:20] *** jeromelanteri left
[15:21] *** MasterDuke joined
[15:21] *** MasterDuke left
[15:21] *** MasterDuke joined
[15:26] *** discord6 joined
[15:27] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:27] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:33] * mst notes that, on thought, he's probably *still* overreacting and shouldn't've brought past incidents up in the first place

[15:33] <mst> 2019 is not honestly a particularly fun year to be a moderator in a lot of respects

[15:34] *** aindilis joined
[15:34] *** robertle left
[15:41] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:41] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:51] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! FindBin (0.2.2) by 03LEMBARK

[15:54] <El_Che> so, who's the designated adult today?

[15:55] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: bisectable6 maybe

[15:55] <Seance[m]> not me

[15:55] <El_Che> if it had a robotic arm with a knife, maybe

[15:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:56] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:01] *** jmerelo joined
[16:06] *** pmurias left
[16:08] <moritz> we're out of adulting, I fear

[16:08] <AlexDaniel> simply means we don't have enough bots

[16:09] <AlexDaniel> once bots take over, no adulting will be required for the project… :)

[16:11] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:11] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:11] <xq> adultine?

[16:17] *** pmurias joined
[16:22] *** Khisanth left
[16:23] *** patrickb left
[16:29] *** vrurg joined
[16:29] <AlexDaniel> speaking of bots

[16:29] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: I know you love tools, I'd like you to learn this bit: https://github.com/perl6/Blin/commit/6da7c3c36e271129e060ace8f20323634de93668

[16:29] <kawaii> AlexDaniel: do you have some time in the coming days to modify your Sakefile to make it easier to run locally without modification or hacks?

[16:30] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: ha, without modifications or hacks

[16:30] <AlexDaniel> hahaha

[16:30] <kawaii> :) !

[16:36] *** Khisanth joined
[16:40] *** molaf joined
[16:44] *** pmurias left
[16:45] <AlexDaniel> mst: I'll count that as an apology for giving this conversation a bad start today

[16:45] <AlexDaniel> Now, can we resolve the issue with the bots by getting a cloak for tyil?

[16:45] <AlexDaniel> I don't want the discord bridge to be klined again

[16:45] <AlexDaniel> tyil: are you ok with getting a cloak?

[16:45] <tyil> AlexDaniel: fwiw, I personally have a cloak already, but the bots do not

[16:46] <mst> yep, all that's required for a cloak is for the bot owner to request one of me.

[16:46] <mst> (goes for all bots if we run into this problem again)

[16:46] <tyil> they always connect from *.tyil.net, though, but they can be cloaked if needs be

[16:46] <AlexDaniel> tyil: ok, can you ask mst for a cloak for bots?

[16:46] <tyil> mst: can u cloak cpan-p6 and discord6 ?

[16:47] *** pdurbin joined
[16:47] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:47] <lucasb> AlexDaniel++ for always being a nice fellow and helpful to the community 

[16:47] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:48] <Seance[m]> I'm glad all of you are doing good work on Perl6 in various capacities, I hope to contribute once I'm more capable (:

[16:48] <tyil> Seance[m]: Perl 6 is relatively easy to pick up and get results with, you might be able to do more than you realize :>

[16:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:49] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:49] <jmerelo> Seance[m]: you can start, for instance, just browsing the documentation. If you find something that does not suit you, create an issue!

[16:49] *** discord6 left
[16:49] *** discord6 joined
[16:50] <mst> tyil: there we go

[16:50] <AlexDaniel> tyil, mst: thank you both!

[16:50] <tyil> yay

[16:50] <tyil> thanks mst 

[16:50] <Seance[m]> <jmerelo "Seance: you can start, for insta"> I do spend a lot of time in the docs

[16:50] <mst> (sorry it took a moment, was double checking exactly how I was supposed to format the cloak so the other staff don't complain at me later ;)

[16:50] <Seance[m]> oof, hope that didn't format as weird for you guys

[16:51] <tyil> 17:50 <Seance[m]> <jmerelo "Seance: you can start, for insta"> I do spend a lot of time in the docs

[16:51] <tyil> that's how it formatted for me

[16:51] <jmerelo> Seance[m]: that's great! Anything you don't like there, just let us know. You can also add examples, or work on one of the 250+ issues that's there...

[16:51] <AlexDaniel`> Seance:  ha, quotes look great on matrix, but on IRC they're a complete wreck

[16:51] *** domidumont left
[16:54] <pdurbin> I just popped in to say that the picture of TimToady for this BDFL event is awesome: http://bdfl-gift.pspython.com . It makes Perl seem more serious and rugged than Python, Java, and C#. :)

[16:54] *** theangryepicbana joined
[16:54] <jmerelo> pdurbin: it's totally "Perl... or else"

[16:55] <theangryepicbana> I have finished the first version of my Tk module for Perl 6

[16:55] <tadzik> hats > no hats

[16:55] <tadzik> theangryepicbana: woo, awesome :) Show us!

[16:55] <theangryepicbana> how do I add it to the module page

[16:55] <theangryepicbana> https://github.com/ALANVF/P6TK

[16:55] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: sorry, any reason you can't change it yourself?

[16:56] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: you have all the privileges, and the script is essentially yours now, so you can do whatever you need

[16:56] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: two options: simply edit META.list https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/blob/master/META.list or get a CPAN ID and upload it there.

[16:56] *** zachk joined
[16:56] <theangryepicbana> ok

[16:56] <kawaii> AlexDaniel: that's fine with me, I can do a PR at least for you to sanity-check

[16:57] <AlexDaniel> just commit directly, I'll try to check later if I have time

[16:57] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: I hope it's in the roadmap to have a few more tests in the near future... But thanks for taking the time to create that :-)

[16:57] *** zachk left
[16:57] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: I'll be having less and less time from now on for this, starting with 0 today and towards -∞

[16:58] <theangryepicbana> yeah, I'll be adding more tests and examples soon

[16:58] *** zachk joined
[16:58] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana++

[16:58] <theangryepicbana> but np

[16:58] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: although maybe it's not so much about time but about me not being able to have so many different things in mind at the same time :)

[16:59] <kawaii> AlexDaniel: I better make the most of your available time then before you vanish entirely :)

[17:02] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:02] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:02] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:02] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:02] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: ALANVF++ created pull request #442: add P6TK module to the list

[17:02] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/pull/442

[17:03] <theangryepicbana> oh that's a cool bot

[17:03] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: we have a whole lot of them :-)

[17:03] <kawaii> releasable6: status

[17:03] <releasable6> kawaii, Next release in ≈25 days and ≈1 hour. 0 blockers. 0 out of 119 commits logged

[17:03] <releasable6> kawaii, Details: https://gist.github.com/ffdaf8adb00579167714363fe4470ef5

[17:03] <theangryepicbana> I can see that

[17:03] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[17:03] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 9 days and ≈18 hours (2019-04-06 UTC-14⌁UTC+12). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[17:03] *** domidumont joined
[17:03] <theangryepicbana> are they all made in Perl 6?

[17:03] <jmerelo> Hey, do y'all know we got a hackathon going on next week?

[17:03] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: right.

[17:04] <theangryepicbana> cool

[17:04] <theangryepicbana> what is the hackathon for?

[17:05] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: in this case, most wanted modules and perl community modules. Getting together around a bunch of modules that have been adopted, for one reason or another, by the community

[17:05] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: or create one from scratch from the "Most wanted" list.

[17:05] <theangryepicbana> oh cool

[17:06] <theangryepicbana> well isn't a Tk library one of the most wanted modules?

[17:06] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: I seem to remember it was... 

[17:06] <theangryepicbana> nice

[17:06] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: there's an error. Let me see if I can fix that for you.

[17:06] <kawaii> https://github.com/perl6/perl6-most-wanted/blob/master/most-wanted/modules.md

[17:06] <theangryepicbana> yea, just saw that

[17:07] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: the problem is probably source-url. Use the https version; I don't think that program is able to understand git URIs

[17:07] <theangryepicbana> ok

[17:07] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: you can do that on the source and tell me when you're done, and I'll launch the test again.

[17:07] *** sno joined
[17:08] <theangryepicbana> ok

[17:08] *** curan left
[17:09] *** sno left
[17:09] <theangryepicbana> jmerelo: done

[17:11] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: going good

[17:11] <theangryepicbana> shoot does travis have Tcl installed?

[17:12] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: no, it just checks the META6.json. And it's failing. I would say it's a JSON error. Maybe you missed a comma, or added one too many?

[17:12] <kawaii> jmerelo: is the upcoming hackaathon a good time for me to raise awareness of a longterm issue in Cro::WebSocket too? It's been putting a pretty major blocker on one of my projects for weeks now.

[17:12] <theangryepicbana> probably

[17:13] <kawaii> I should probably poke jnthn about it (again) really :P

[17:13] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: you can use Travis, however, to test your own project. If you need anything fancy running, the way to go is to use Docker containers.

[17:13] <theangryepicbana> ok

[17:13] <theangryepicbana> my json seems fine

[17:13] *** andrzejku joined
[17:13] <jmerelo> kawaii: as long as it's a community module, yes. If it's not, well, we can say it's a most wanted, but we would need the collaboration of the maintainers to hook it up to the bot (and accept PRs)

[17:14] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: let me check

[17:15] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: the error is not too informative...

[17:15] <theangryepicbana> yeah

[17:15] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: may I ask how you decided to start with Perl 6?

[17:15] <theangryepicbana> well

[17:15] <theangryepicbana> It started when I was browsing through the files on my old macbook

[17:16] *** robertle joined
[17:16] <lucasb> AlexDaniel: how to pull whateverable changes?

[17:16] <theangryepicbana> I kept seeing a lot of "perl" files, and I decided to google it

[17:16] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: that's a good story...

[17:16] <theangryepicbana> accidentally typed a "6" wen searching

[17:16] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: I'm checking it locally, and it seems to work...

[17:16] <theangryepicbana> *when

[17:16] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: it gets better...

[17:17] <theangryepicbana> ok

[17:17] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: one of the files you mention in provides is missing

[17:17] <theangryepicbana> hmm

[17:18] <jmerelo> Tcl::OptionParser.pm6 is not mentioned

[17:19] <theangryepicbana> ohhh

[17:20] <theangryepicbana> I am dumb. I didn't include the file because it is only used internally

[17:21] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: it needs to know everything for installing But that shouldn't be it.

[17:22] <theangryepicbana> well then, I'm not sure what else is wrong. it works just fine on my computer

[17:23] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: I think the problem is that it needs wish to pass the tests. Test #4 goes zef test .

[17:23] <theangryepicbana> yeah, that's what I thought at first

[17:24] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: the only way to do that now is to use Build.pm6 to download stuff

[17:24] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: but fair enough, I have tested it here and it works, so I'll give it a pass

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: 664120c69e | alan.invents++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: add P6TK module to the list

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/664120c69e

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: 524366597a | (Juan Julián Merelo Guervós)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: Merge pull request #442 from ALANVF/patch-1

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: 

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: add P6TK module to the list

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/524366597a

[17:24] <theangryepicbana> thanks

[17:24] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: thanks!

[17:24] <theangryepicbana> no problem

[17:25] <theangryepicbana> I'll go work on some examples

[17:25] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana++

[17:26] <theangryepicbana> I have increased?

[17:26] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: :-) It's a way of saying "Good work" or "Kudos" or "You rock"

[17:27] <theangryepicbana> ah

[17:27] <theangryepicbana> thanks

[17:27] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: it's your grandma's Facebook's thumbs up 

[17:27] <theangryepicbana> lol

[17:28] <Seance[m]> HEART REACTS ONLY

[17:31] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: do you mind if I share your history of getting into Perl 6 in Twitter and elsewhere? It's probably the best one I've heard ever.

[17:32] <theangryepicbana> sure!

[17:32] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: or if you use Twitter, share it with /cc jjmerelo and I'll RT

[17:32] <theangryepicbana> I don't use twitter actually

[17:32] *** sno joined
[17:32] <theangryepicbana> I only use discord and yt for social media

[17:33] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: I'm too old I guess to use that... 

[17:33] <theangryepicbana> lmao

[17:33] <kawaii> jmerelo: it's Skype but 'modern'?

[17:33] <Seance[m]> It's way better than Skype

[17:33] <theangryepicbana> kawaii: basically

[17:33] <theangryepicbana> yes, much better

[17:34] <tadzik> I don't know, I never had to wait 20 seconds for a voice connection on skype

[17:34] <kawaii> I've a half-finished module to work with their API, but there are issues in Cro::WebSocket preventing me from really finishing it and making working bots :)

[17:34] <theangryepicbana> but I don't mind if you post it on Twitter

[17:34] <jmerelo> kawaii: Yep, I know, but I've had a lot of experience with many messaging systems: identi.ca, quitter, status.net Even slack... I've got more than enough with Telegram and IRC...

[17:34] *** entonian joined
[17:34] <Seance[m]> Discord is more like Riot for normies from a UX perspective

[17:34] *** reach_satori_ joined
[17:34] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: getting it ready :-)

[17:34] <jmerelo> Seance[m]: you see? Just another thing... 

[17:34] *** dakkar left
[17:34] <theangryepicbana> kawaii: wait, are you the one who made the p6-shuppet-api thing?

[17:35] <Seance[m]> Yeah, there's so many messengers out there, I use Matrix and try to b ridge it all together

[17:35] <tadzik> Riot at least attempts to reduce the number of things we use :)

[17:35] <Seance[m]> exactly

[17:35] <kawaii> theangryepicbana: yes I'm one of the developers of API::Discord (https://github.com/shuppet/p6-api-discord)

[17:35] <theangryepicbana> oh cool

[17:35] <theangryepicbana> I am using that for one of my bots rn

[17:36] <theangryepicbana> (it's here if you want to see it: https://repl.it/@theangryepicbanana/discordp6)

[17:36] <kawaii> Interesting, do your bots ever silently 'die'? (i.e. Discord is sending TCP but the supply isn't getting the data?)

[17:37] <theangryepicbana> every once in a while

[17:37] <kawaii> I _think_ because of https://github.com/croservices/cro-websocket/issues/15 it causes a lot of connectivity issues, since we can't detect when the supply has died and force the bot to restart :(

[17:37] <theangryepicbana> but it isn't that bad

[17:37] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:37] <theangryepicbana> ah

[17:37] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:37] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:37] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:37] <theangryepicbana> it's still a good library

[17:38] <kawaii> I'm hoping that complaining loudly enough about it here will annoy jnthn to fix it :)

[17:38] <theangryepicbana> I can help with that lol

[17:38] <jmerelo> theangryepicbana: https://twitter.com/jjmerelo/status/1110596844097294337

[17:39] <theangryepicbana> jmerelo: awesome

[17:39] <kawaii> :D

[17:40] <kawaii> theangryepicbana: nice little bot you made btw, once we finish API::Discord we're going to make a bot framework too, to make all the tricky things easy :)

[17:40] *** antoniogamiz joined
[17:40] <antoniogamiz> \o/

[17:40] <theangryepicbana> cool

[17:40] <theangryepicbana> also thanks

[17:40] <jmerelo> hey, antoniogamiz 

[17:41] <jmerelo> y'all, antoniogamiz is, for the time being, the only person that has applied for Google Summer of Code with us

[17:41] <tadzik> hello! :)

[17:41] <antoniogamiz> hi :)

[17:41] <kawaii> :)

[17:41] <theangryepicbana> who is antoniogamiz

[17:41] <tadzik> antoniogamiz: what will you be working on?

[17:41] <theangryepicbana> also hello

[17:41] <antoniogamiz> me :D

[17:41] <antoniogamiz> ahahah

[17:41] <jmerelo> If you're already a mentor in the organization, check out his application. If you're not, check it out at https://github.com/antoniogamiz/perl6-gsoc-application 

[17:42] <tadzik> ooh

[17:42] <antoniogamiz> tadzik: check the link that jmerelo has passed

[17:42] <theangryepicbana> wow long read

[17:42] <antoniogamiz> yep I know, sorry for that

[17:42] <jmerelo> tadzik: basically, the documentation tooling

[17:43] <theangryepicbana> that's cool

[17:43] <antoniogamiz> it lasts 12 weeks so it needs to be long 

[17:43] <jmerelo> tadzik: it's been called by Someone Who Knows "A rat's nest". He might help us un-rat and un-nest it just a little tiny bit.

[17:43] <tadzik> My GSoC project in 2011 was Pod and all that :)

[17:43] <theangryepicbana> wow

[17:43] <tadzik> I'm glad someone is de-rating that ;)

[17:44] <theangryepicbana> I would just write a sentence or two and call it a day

[17:44] <jmerelo> tadzik: Pod is in pretty good shape, that was awesome work. How was your experience, in general?

[17:45] *** entonian left
[17:45] <tadzik> jmerelo: awesome. It was just when Rakudo was switching to nom too :)

[17:45] <AlexDaniel> tadzik: no swear words please

[17:45] <antoniogamiz> tadzik: really? what did you do?

[17:45] <AlexDaniel> x)

[17:45] <tadzik> AlexDaniel: rakudo? :P

[17:45] <jmerelo> tadzik: you probably made possible that the documentation was actually written. It started right after that...

[17:46] <AlexDaniel> tadzik: “nom” x)

[17:46] <tadzik> antoniogamiz: I implemented the Pod parsing in Rakudo, also the original Pod::To::Text and maybe ::HTML too, I don't remember

[17:46] <tadzik> AlexDaniel: :D

[17:46] <tadzik> I also remember alpha :P

[17:46] <antoniogamiz> tadzik: :ooooo awesome, thanks for your work!

[17:46] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: ah, answered on #whateverable, didn't see your message here. Basically, currently these bots are using a slightly older version

[17:46] <antoniogamiz> tadzik: maybe ::HTML will be changed to use Template::Mustache

[17:47] *** kerrhau joined
[17:47] <jmerelo> tadzik: would you want to lend a hand as a mentor? We've got a few already, but if antoniogamiz is accepted, he might we working on that, so you might be of help

[17:47] <tadzik> antoniogamiz: I'm really happy how it's grown and how widely it's used now

[17:47] <jmerelo> antoniogamiz: it's already changed, but at a high level...

[17:47] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: if you add your ssh key to github I can give you access to whateverable server

[17:47] <tadzik> jmerelo: sure thing

[17:47] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: so that you are able to fix it yourself… but it involves committing some uncommitted changes…

[17:47] <antoniogamiz> jmerelo: I know I know

[17:47] <tadzik> I'll need to dust off my Perl 6, but I should still understand some of the lines I wrote...

[17:48] <antoniogamiz> hahhaha

[17:48] <theangryepicbana> lol

[17:48] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: very dirty work, I'd say…

[17:48] <theangryepicbana> it will be easier than trying to understand that Perl script from last week

[17:48] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: lembark++ created pull request #443: Add FindBin to ecosystem

[17:48] <Geth> ¦ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/pull/443

[17:49] *** vrurg left
[17:50] *** vrurg joined
[17:55] *** kensanata left
[17:56] *** qwebirc959292 joined
[17:57] <qwebirc959292> great, now I get to wait for my old session to time out

[17:57] <qwebirc959292> (I'm theangryepicbana)

[17:57] *** theangryepicbana left
[17:57] <qwebirc959292> ok

[17:57] *** qwebirc959292 left
[17:58] *** theangryepicbana joined
[18:05] *** zakharyas left
[18:07] *** entonian joined
[18:07] *** antoniogamiz left
[18:09] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: why was nom changed to master? Why was nom used in the first place?

[18:10] *** htc^ joined
[18:10] *** entonian left
[18:10] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ok, first see this http://perl6.org:4242/post/nom-branch-default

[18:10] <MasterDuke> does anyone know if aaron sherman of https://github.com/ajs/perl6-Math-Arrow and https://github.com/ajs/perl6-Math-Sequences is ever here?

[18:11] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK, done.

[18:12] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: also maybe https://perlgeek.de/blog-en/perl-6/how-fast-is-nom.html

[18:12] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: and http://pmthium.com/2011/02/new-nqp-repository-new-nom-rakudo-branch/

[18:13] <AlexDaniel> now, if my understanding is correct, at first it was like an experiment of sorts

[18:13] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: so it was mainly due to the switch to the new MoarVM 

[18:13] <AlexDaniel> but then, IMO, there was a big mistake when instead of making it the master branch they decided to use `nom` as the default branch

[18:13] <theangryepicbana> wait, there;s a new moarvm?

[18:13] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: there was quite a bit of branch shuffling and renaming

[18:15] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: so since then we were stuck with `master` everywhere except rakudo where `nom` was the default branch… the number of times I wrote `master` when I meant `nom` was incredible… :)

[18:15] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: :-)

[18:15] <AlexDaniel> and pretty sure it was a small but common pain for many others

[18:15] <AlexDaniel> so at some point I renamed it to master, as simple as that :)

[18:16] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: 2011-2012 looks like a critical phase in Perl 6 development... 

[18:16] <AlexDaniel> or rather, created a master branch, or something like that

[18:16] <jnthn> AlexDaniel: At the time, it avoided quite a bit of confusion, but it certainly outlived its usefullness.

[18:17] *** vrurg left
[18:17] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: I understand, but I'm surprised that the moment it was decided to change the default branch nobody said “hold on but then what? Like a few months ahead?”

[18:17] *** __jrjsmrtn__ joined
[18:17] *** vrurg joined
[18:17] <AlexDaniel> but maybe everyone was using nom already so it wasn't that easy, I wasn't there

[18:18] *** andrzejku left
[18:18] *** theangryepicbana left
[18:19] <Seance[m]> Are you guys doing the Perl Weekly Challenge?

[18:20] <Seance[m]> I want to discuss how I could do my solution better without 'spoiling' it

[18:20] <jmerelo> Seance[m]: I signed up for it. Might get the time to do it...

[18:20] <Seance[m]> for portion 2, the one liner bit

[18:20] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: how do you sign up? Where do you send stuff? I don't understand…

[18:21] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: email Mohammed Anwar

[18:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:21] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: switching to master wasn't easy too, by the way

[18:21] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:21] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:21] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: pretty sure there are still people using it :D

[18:22] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: https://perlweeklychallenge.org/

[18:22] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: like, if you used rakudobrew with nom, then it'd continue to pull from nom… or something like that

[18:22] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: maybe... Maybe some people are still using parrot, who knows :-)

[18:23] <AlexDaniel> haaaa I'd love to see that

[18:23] <Geth> ¦ doc: 9a95c73a5f | Coke++ | doc/Type/Blob.pod6

[18:23] <Geth> ¦ doc: multi-line method declarations require massaging.

[18:23] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[18:23] <Geth> ¦ doc: split into 3 separate method signatures instead of a combined

[18:23] <Geth> ¦ doc: one, and give the 2-line variant help

[18:23] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Blob

[18:23] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/9a95c73a5f

[18:23] <Seance[m]> Apparently my employer decided the perl challenge site was a security risk

[18:23] <Seance[m]> RIP

[18:25] <jnthn> AlexDaniel: Yes, lots of folks had switched to using nom, but it came with a bunch of breaking changes (and unintended breakage :)) so there was a period where folks who had Perl 6 code they'd already written stuck with older versions for a bit.

[18:25] *** sauvin left
[18:25] <jnthn> AlexDaniel: Also remember that the userbase and community was rather smaller then :)

[18:25] <Geth> ¦ doc: 3fcdd25f77 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/list.pod6

[18:25] <Geth> ¦ doc: Better example for #2689

[18:25] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/3fcdd25f77

[18:25] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/list

[18:26] <Seance[m]> basically my concern is that my one liner is so many characters long i'm not sure it qualifies as a one liner

[18:26] <Seance[m]> though it technically uses perl6 -e

[18:26] <jmerelo> Seance[m]: oneliner it is.

[18:27] <jnthn> dinner &

[18:28] <MasterDuke> .seen ajs

[18:29] <AlexDaniel> Seance[m]: but who said it has to be a oneliner?

[18:29] <AlexDaniel> ahhh, it demands a one-liner!

[18:29] <AlexDaniel> interesting

[18:29] <MasterDuke> dpk: looks like yoleax is missing from #perl6, #perl6-dev, and #moarvm

[18:33] <Seance[m]> Yeah I wouldn't otherwise use a one liner so it's nice to pseudo familiarize with the syntax

[18:35] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:35] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:35] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:35] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:41] <jmerelo> .tell yoleaux please come back

[18:44] <dpk> MasterDuke: thanks for the heads up, it seems to be crashing on launch

[18:44] <dpk> investigating

[18:46] <dpk> hmmm

[18:46] <dpk> RECV:"ERROR :Closing Link: xn--ht-1ia18f.nonceword.org (Too many user connections (global))\r\n"

[18:47] <tyil> weekly: https://pleroma.tyil.nl/notice/9hAhONQSZaj1QqKHNA

[18:47] <notable6> tyil, Noted!

[18:48] <MasterDuke> mst: ^^^ is dpk's error something you can help with?

[18:48] <mst> dpk: are you running more bots from that host than you used to?

[18:49] <dpk> i'm running two bots (one of which currently can't connect) and bouncers for myself and i think three friends of mine

[18:50] *** MilkmanDan joined
[18:50] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:50] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:50] <dpk> and it's been that way for … at least a year

[18:51] <dpk> i haven't added any more connections in that time

[18:51] <ugexe> m: print("$_ ", (!($_ % 3) and "Fizz" or ""), (!($_ % 5) and "Buzz" or ""), "\n") for 1..20; # works for perl 5 or 6

[18:51] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «1 ␤2 ␤3 Fizz␤4 ␤5 Buzz␤6 Fizz␤7 ␤8 ␤9 Fizz␤10 Buzz␤11 ␤12 Fizz␤13 ␤14 ␤15 FizzBuzz␤16 ␤17 ␤18 Fizz␤19 ␤20 Buzz␤»

[18:51] *** zachk left
[18:51] *** zachk joined
[18:53] <tony-o> jmerelo: writing a blog post on how to write a plugin for zef, should be ready to roll on friday

[18:54] <Geth> ¦ doc: c1288c8b08 | Coke++ | t/02-tests-valid.t

[18:54] <Geth> ¦ doc: Give skip reason when running 0 tests

[18:54] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/c1288c8b08

[18:54] <jmerelo> tony-o: great! Doubly great if you somehow link it from zef's README.md :-)

[18:59] <tony-o> the stuff isn't going to be ready for production zef by friday but you will be able to play around with it locally then

[19:00] <tony-o> you can play around with it locally today, really but until it's in stable zef it's AYOR

[19:01] <tony-o> i'll have a setup section on how to run it locally

[19:01] <tony-o> https://github.com/ugexe/zef/tree/allow-runtime-interface-plugins

[19:04] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:04] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:04] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:04] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:09] *** Sgeo__ joined
[19:11] <mst> dpk: maybe something's got a stale connection, or two, or something

[19:12] <mst> dpk: easiest way to fix it is probably to get identd to work

[19:12] *** Sgeo_ left
[19:12] <SmokeMachine> m: (quietly say [‘fizz’][++$ %3] ~ [‘buzz’][++$ % 5] || ++$) xx 20

[19:13] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «1␤2␤fizz␤3␤buzz␤fizz␤4␤5␤fizz␤buzz␤6␤fizz␤7␤8␤fizzbuzz␤9␤10␤fizz␤11␤buzz␤»

[19:15] <SmokeMachine> m: quietly say [‘fizz’][$_%3] ~ [‘buzz’][$_% 5] || $_ for 1..20

[19:15] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «1␤2␤fizz␤4␤buzz␤fizz␤7␤8␤fizz␤buzz␤11␤fizz␤13␤14␤fizzbuzz␤16␤17␤fizz␤19␤buzz␤»

[19:16] *** MidCheck left
[19:18] <SmokeMachine> m: my $a=1;(quietly say [‘fizz’][$a %3] ~ [‘buzz’][$a++ % 5] || $a++) xx 20

[19:18] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «2␤fizz␤5␤fizz␤8␤fizz␤buzz␤12␤14␤fizzbuzz␤17␤fizz␤20␤fizz␤23␤fizz␤buzz␤27␤29␤fizzbuzz␤»

[19:20] *** zakharyas joined
[19:20] *** netrino joined
[19:25] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Algorithm-Evolutionary-Simple (0.0.7) by 03JMERELO

[19:27] <Geth> ¦ doc: a569bbb92b | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/list.pod6

[19:27] <Geth> ¦ doc: Further clarification closes #2689

[19:27] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/a569bbb92b

[19:27] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/list

[19:27] *** macheen joined
[19:32] *** vrurg left
[19:32] *** vrurg joined
[19:41] <lucasb> tbrowder: o/

[19:41] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:41] <lucasb> At the end of the Makefile, there's a line like: t/*/*.t t/*.t t/*/*/*.t: $(M_HARNESS5_WITH_FUDGE) --verbosity=1 $@

[19:42] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:42] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:42] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:42] <lucasb> generated by Configure.pl https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/Configure.pl#L394

[19:43] <lucasb> IDK if that's documented anywhere :)

[19:43] <lucasb> regarding R#2798

[19:43] <synopsebot> R#2798 [open]: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2798 Make finer-grained spectest targets

[19:51] <ugexe> for (1..100000) { ((join( "", (!($_ % 3) and "Fizz" or ""), (!($_ % 5) and "Buzz" or "") ) or $_), "\n") for 1..20; } <-- perl 5 runs this in 0.420s (heheh), perl6 runs it in 6.848s

[19:51] *** vrurg left
[19:52] *** vrurg joined
[19:52] *** sena_kun joined
[19:54] <AlexDaniel> ugexe: nice benchmark

[19:55] <tbrowder> lucasb: thnx

[19:55] <AlexDaniel> ugexe: can you try changing join() sub to ().join method? See if that makes any difference

[19:55] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:56] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:56] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:58] <ugexe> 4.8s with .join

[19:59] <ugexe> so like 2s of that is just from calling method join from inside sub join

[19:59] <MasterDuke> join in src/core/Any-iterable-methods.pm6:2143 isn't getting jitted becuase of param_op_o

[20:01] *** zakharyas left
[20:03] <ugexe> mod_i doesn't have an expr template

[20:04] <AlexDaniel> oh wow my solution is like 4 times slower…

[20:05] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[20:09] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:10] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:10] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:10] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:10] *** jmerelo left
[20:14] *** domidumont left
[20:16] *** zakharyas joined
[20:20] *** cgfbee left
[20:23] *** cgfbee joined
[20:24] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:25] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:25] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:25] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:29] *** Xliff joined
[20:29] <Xliff> \o

[20:29] <Xliff> Is there a concept of word-size in nativecall?

[20:29] <Xliff> Say for example I have a struct that contains a value that is equivlaent to the word-size of the processor.

[20:30] <Xliff> You can uave uint32, or uint64, but I was wondering if there was a proper "uint" that would use the right wordsize, given the above case.

[20:31] *** [Sno] joined
[20:31] <ugexe> atomic int would have to be the proper word size i think, although im not sure it can/should be used for that purpose

[20:33] <ugexe> im like 10% sure of it

[20:34] *** sno left
[20:37] <Xliff> ugexe: Can you use atomic int in a CStruct?

[20:38] *** molaf left
[20:39] <ugexe> no idea. maybe you can somehow derive the correct type from atomicint itself and use the appropriate type in the CStruct

[20:43] <Xliff> That would require the CStruct to be built at run-time.

[20:43] <Xliff> Or at BEGIN time.

[20:44] <Xliff> Was hoping rakudo would do that magic for me! :D

[20:46] <ctilmes> m: use NativeCall; say nativesizeof(atomicint)

[20:46] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «8␤»

[20:47] <ctilmes> if nativesizeof(atomicint) == 8, use int64, else use int32?

[20:52] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:52] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:52] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:52] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:56] *** pmurias joined
[21:10] <AlexDaniel> Xliff: so uhh… stats?

[21:13] <Xliff> Already committed and pushed. I still owe you a graph, but just haven't gotten the motivation.

[21:13] <Xliff> tl;dr - GTKPlus is taking 34 minutes to compile on latest rakudo

[21:14] <Xliff> That's 486 .pm6 files.

[21:17] <tadzik> whoa

[21:18] <Xliff> That's pretty much all of GTK, most of GDK and some GLib. A lot more of GLib than I am comfortable with.

[21:19] <Xliff> I may have to split this up, soon.

[21:25] <Xliff> What's the best way to alias a sub?

[21:26] <Xliff> lizmat has Method::Also for methods, but wouldn't subs in a package be different?

[21:29] <Xliff> m: sub a { say "Hi!" }; say &a.^mro

[21:29] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «((Sub) (Routine) (Block) (Code) (Any) (Mu))␤»

[21:29] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:30] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:36] *** ctilmes left
[21:40] <vrurg> Anybody builds js backend on macOS?

[21:44] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:45] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:45] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:45] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:45] <ugexe> i tried but fauiled

[21:47] <ugexe> i didn't try very hard

[21:51] <vrurg> ugexe: ok, thanks. 

[21:54] *** zakharyas left
[21:58] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:59] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:07] *** traumschule joined
[22:13] *** robertle left
[22:20] <Seance[m]> SmokeMachine: Conceptually, how does the ['fizz'][++$ %3] work? I see that [++$ %3] is presumably a trueness test for modulo 3, but how is fizz only printed conditionally?

[22:22] <ugexe> m: say "foo"[0]; say "foo"[1]

[22:22] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «foo␤Index out of range. Is: 1, should be in 0..0␤  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1␤␤»

[22:22] <ugexe> so if remainder is 0 you get the value

[22:23] <Xliff> How do you dynamically add a sub as export to a package.

[22:23] <Xliff> For classes, you can use package.^add_method.. is there something similar?

[22:23] *** bazzaar joined
[22:24] <bazzaar> \o perl6

[22:26] <SmokeMachine> Seance[m]: $number % 3 returns the rest of the division by 3

[22:27] <bazzaar> I was just looking at the perl6.org webpages, and realised that I'd never once clicked on the 'Fun' or 'Whatever' tabbed pages

[22:29] <Seance[m]> SmokeMachine: I understand how modulo works, but I wasn't sure how '

[22:29] <Seance[m]> *fizz was being printed

[22:29] <bazzaar> The content of the 'Fun' page seems like it should all be accessible from the Community page instead 

[22:30] <SmokeMachine> Seance[m]: [“fizz”] creates an array with “fizz” in the position 0

[22:30] <Seance[m]> ahhhhhh

[22:30] <bazzaar> The content of the 'Whatever' page is 95% about editors and IDE's 

[22:31] <SmokeMachine> Seance[m]: got it?

[22:31] <Seance[m]> so you instantiate an array containing fizz and if there's no remainder it displays the array index 0

[22:31] <Seance[m]> it's an anonymous array

[22:31] *** [particle] joined
[22:32] <SmokeMachine> Seance[m]: yes

[22:32] <bazzaar> So perhaps the 'Fun' page could be removed, and the 'Whatever' page be renamed 'Editors'?

[22:32] <Xliff> m: ['fizz'][1].say

[22:32] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «(Any)␤»

[22:33] *** [particle]1 left
[22:33] <Xliff> m: ['fizz'][3].say

[22:33] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «(Any)␤»

[22:33] <Seance[m]> well that's a really cool solution

[22:33] <Seance[m]> my 'one liner' was ghastly

[22:33] <SmokeMachine> Xliff: that’s the reason of the quietly...

[22:33] <Seance[m]> a bunch of given $_ when

[22:33] <Xliff> m: my 4a = ['fizz'][3]

[22:33] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>␤Malformed my␤at <tmp>:1␤------> 3my7⏏5 4a = ['fizz'][3]␤»

[22:33] <Xliff> m: my $a = ['fizz'][3]

[22:33] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: ( no output )

[22:34] <Xliff> No.I am testing to see if it will throw an index error.

[22:34] <ugexe> given $_ { when 3 { print "Fizz" } when 5 { print "Buzz" } when 6 { ...

[22:34] *** pecastro left
[22:34] <Xliff> ugexe: That's the way I'd go.

[22:34] <ugexe> the constraints were only up to 20. so it might be the fastest version

[22:34] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:35] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:35] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:35] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:35] <Seance[m]> mine was like

[22:35] <Seance[m]> 'for 1..20 { when $_ %% 3 {print "fizz"; proceed}; when $_ %% 5 {print "buzz"; proceed}; when $_ !%%3 and $_ !%%5 {print $_; proceed }; print "\n"; }'

[22:35] <Xliff> Seance[m]: THAT! :D

[22:35] <Xliff> What was the better one?

[22:36] <Seance[m]> I liked quietly say [‘fizz’][$%3] ~ [‘buzz’][$% 5] || $_ for 1..20

[22:36] <bazzaar> Neither 'Fun', nor 'Whatever' are particularly descriptive or meaningful to a prospective perl6 newcomer

[22:36] <SmokeMachine> Xliff: if it were a List it would...

[22:36] <Seance[m]> I used whatever to make atom perl6 ified before comma community came out

[22:37] <SmokeMachine> m: (“fizz”)[3]

[22:37] <camelia> rakudo-moar 87d219ee6: OUTPUT: «Index out of range. Is: 3, should be in 0..0␤  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1␤␤»

[22:39] <Xliff> SmokeMachine: Ahh.. Yeah. That's clever. :)

[22:40] <Xliff> I still need to start using Comma.

[22:41] <Seance[m]> I like a lot of it

[22:41] <Seance[m]> but I'm not used to working with 'real' IDEs and pieces of it confuse me

[22:44] <bazzaar> Now that the free version of Comma is available, shouldn't it be promoted more prominently on perl6.org

[22:47] <bazzaar> Seance[m]: I also find IDE's a bit confusing, having not used them before. 

[22:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:50] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:51] <xq> $work is offering to buy me books

[22:51] <xq> what are must-read perl 6 books ?

[22:53] <bazzaar> xq: there's a list of the available books on the resources page of perl6.org

[22:53] <AlexDaniel> also there's this chart: https://perl6book.com/

[22:56] *** sena_kun left
[22:58] <bazzaar> xq: I can vouch for the two books by Moritz Lenz, I've read those specifically, and worked through the examples.

[23:00] <ugexe> if work is paying just have work buy you the expensive ones. then less expensive ones yourself

[23:00] <xq> hm

[23:00] <Seance[m]> I've read the one by brian d foy (Learning Perl6) and Moritz's Think Perl6

[23:01] <xq> I like how you think ugexe :D

[23:04] <bazzaar> xq: the 'Web Application Development' book seems to me to have stalled completely, and as it's taken quite a bit of money (mine included) maybe that book shouldn't still be promoted at this time

[23:05] *** cgfbee left
[23:07] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:07] <bazzaar> Seance[m]: 'Think Perl 6' was written by Laurent Rosenfeld

[23:07] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:07] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:07] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:09] <Seance[m]> whoops

[23:09] *** cgfbee joined
[23:16] <pmurias> xq: do you use Perl 6 at work?

[23:17] *** kaare__ left
[23:18] *** kaare__ joined
[23:20] <xq> not yet

[23:20] <xq> but I'm open to possibility

[23:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:21] <xq> and we have a bunch of perl 5, with more being written, so it's not too unreal

[23:21] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:21] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:25] *** entonian joined
[23:25] *** MidCheck joined
[23:27] <bazzaar> xq: I'm not a serious programmer, but I've used perl for many years, and having moved to perl6 a couple of years back, I hardly ever go back to perl5. Perl6 is so intuitive.

[23:30] <Geth> ¦ doc: b3ac1a38a3 | (Tom Browder)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/pod.pod6

[23:30] <Geth> ¦ doc: document newly-implemented config hash method

[23:30] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b3ac1a38a3

[23:30] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/pod

[23:34] *** entonian left
[23:36] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:36] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:36] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:36] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:42] *** vrurg left
[23:42] *** vrurg joined
[23:51] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:51] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:51] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:51] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:54] *** bazzaar left
