[00:28] *** mowcat left
[00:33] *** MilkmanDan joined
[01:04] *** dmiserak joined
[01:21] *** adu joined
[01:23] *** dmiserak left
[01:28] *** molaf_ left
[01:36] *** zakharyas joined
[01:41] *** molaf_ joined
[01:50] *** kurahaupo left
[02:20] *** hythm joined
[02:21] <Geth> ¦ doc: uzluisf++ created pull request #2851: Add minor rewording

[02:21] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2851

[02:40] *** MilkmanDan left
[02:41] *** MilkmanDan joined
[02:54] *** cpup left
[03:27] *** epony joined
[03:28] *** epony left
[03:29] *** epony joined
[03:44] *** veesh left
[03:46] *** veesh joined
[04:22] *** hythm left
[04:39] *** curan joined
[04:56] *** Rayler joined
[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: c193bada57 | (Luis F. Uceta)++ | doc/Language/modules.pod6

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: Add minor rewording

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/c193bada57

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: a98de4714c | (Juan Julián Merelo Guervós)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/modules.pod6

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: Merge pull request #2851 from uzluisf/master

[05:20] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/modules

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: Add minor rewording

[05:20] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/a98de4714c

[05:24] *** jmerelo joined
[05:25] *** sauvin joined
[05:25] <jmerelo> I think I'm gonna publish the Perl 6 user survey today if no one is against it

[05:26] <jmerelo> In fact, here you go: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfX6cjuhen2xepsr_Cg8eYSdlEE4wbhufgOR1BrDwStby_hNg/viewform

[05:26] *** cpup joined
[05:33] *** Rayler left
[05:40] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[05:40] <releasable6> jmerelo, Next release in ≈7 days and ≈13 hours. 2 blockers. 221 out of 616 commits logged (⚠ 1 warnings)

[05:40] <releasable6> jmerelo, Details: https://gist.github.com/923c0c4b91a095fe826e57d6f8f36635

[05:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: 091171cffb | (JJ Merelo)++ | 2 files

[05:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: Updates dockerfiles

[05:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/091171cffb

[05:49] *** AlexDaniel left
[05:52] <jmerelo> Reminder: last year survey were published in https://perl6.github.io/p6survey/

[06:15] *** jmerelo left
[06:25] *** abraxxa joined
[06:25] *** abraxxa left
[06:26] *** abraxxa joined
[06:31] *** abraxxa left
[06:31] *** abraxxa joined
[06:31] *** cgfbee left
[06:48] *** patrickb joined
[07:01] *** cgfbee joined
[07:07] *** wyclif joined
[07:10] *** mowcat joined
[07:27] *** Sgeo_ joined
[07:30] *** Sgeo left
[07:35] *** epony left
[07:36] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! ProcStats (0.0.1) by 03LEMBARK

[07:39] *** dakkar joined
[07:47] *** adu left
[07:48] *** rindolf joined
[07:49] *** aborazmeh joined
[07:49] *** aborazmeh left
[07:49] *** aborazmeh joined
[07:51] *** dolmen joined
[07:52] *** robertle joined
[07:57] *** [particle]1 joined
[07:58] *** [particle] left
[08:01] *** [particle]1 left
[08:05] *** scimon joined
[08:10] *** [particle] joined
[08:14] *** dolmen left
[08:15] *** dolmen joined
[08:18] *** aborazmeh left
[08:36] *** [particle]1 joined
[08:37] *** [particle] left
[08:45] <daxim> need the equivalent of   perl -MDevel::Peek -E'say Devel::Peek->VERSION' →→→   perl6 -MInline::Perl5 -e'say Inline::Perl5 ...'

[09:00] *** [particle] joined
[09:02] *** ravenousmoose left
[09:02] *** [particle]1 left
[09:03] *** ravenousmoose joined
[09:11] *** patrickb left
[09:18] *** [particle]1 joined
[09:19] *** [particle] left
[09:24] *** sena_kun joined
[09:41] *** Rayler joined
[09:54] <tobs> daxim: perl6 -e 'use Devel::Peek:from<Perl5>; say Devel::Peek.VERSION'

[09:55] <daxim> No such method 'VERSION' for invocant of type 'Inline::Perl5'

[09:58] <tobs> huh, it just says the same as your `perl` line over here. And Devel::Peek.^name is Devel::Peek, not Inline::Perl5. I have Inline::Perl5 v0.35 fwiw.

[09:59] *** [Sno] left
[10:00] <lizmat> $ perl6 -e 'use Devel::Peek:from<Perl5>; say Devel::Peek.VERSION'

[10:00] <lizmat> 1.27

[10:00] <tobs> exactly

[10:01] <daxim> how do you know that Inline::Perl5 is v0.35?

[10:02] <lizmat> hmmm... good question...  there is a 0.39 out BTW

[10:05] <tobs> I `zef info`d it. But there surely exists a way to introspect it...

[10:09] <daxim> https://docs.perl6.org/language/typesystem#Versioning_and_authorship     perl6 -MInline::Perl5 -e'say Inline::Perl5.^ver'  →→→ (Mu)

[10:10] <tobs> That's the same here. I suppose the Inline::Perl5 class itself isn't versioned, only the module is.

[10:11] <tobs> This is what I googled together (and works over here):

[10:11] <tobs> m: say CompUnit::DependencySpecification.new(:short-name<Inline::Perl5>).&{$*REPO.resolve: $_}.distribution.meta<ver>

[10:11] <evalable6> tobs, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «Nil␤»

[10:12] <tobs> I hope that just means it's not installed on evalable :/

[10:13] <daxim> that says v0.38 for me

[10:14] *** wyclif left
[10:15] *** Black_Ribbon left
[10:15] <daxim> that's too complicated for this perler's taste. mind the motto "easy thing easy"

[10:17] *** wyclif joined
[10:18] <tobs> hmm, I upgraded to v0.38 specifically and the Devel::Peek.VERSION still works.

[10:19] *** ravenousmoose left
[10:20] <timotimo> how does it report the error when you put something you don't have before the :from<Perl5>?

[10:20] <tobs> Beware that I barely know anything about module authoring and such. It might in fact be easier without me knowing about it. (But I have to say, without understanding the whole complex, it looks overengineered to me at times.)

[10:22] *** robertle left
[10:23] <tobs> timotimo: in my case, I get a compile-time error from perl5 about not finding the module, wrapped inside a SORRY from perl6.

[10:23] <tobs> (or who were you asking?)

[10:24] <timotimo> yeah, i was just wondering if maybe Inline::Perl5 wasn't finding Devel::Peek on daxim's machine for some reason

[10:24] <Rayler> hiya

[10:31] *** robertle joined
[10:32] *** molaf_ left
[10:33] *** zakharyas left
[10:35] *** patrickb joined
[10:44] * tadzik submitted a PerlCon talk o/ https://perlcon.eu/talk/101

[10:47] <daxim> let me guess the biggest point: auto-accessors for every field by default?

[10:48] *** dolmen left
[10:51] *** noisegul joined
[10:52] <timotimo> have a camel and it it too?

[10:52] <timotimo> that's not how you spell eat :) :)

[10:53] <tadzik> daxim: close. Mostly about the blur that `has` introduces between the internal data and (constructor's) public interface

[10:53] <lizmat> tadzik: interesting... only 20 mins ?

[10:53] <tadzik> lizmat: my experience suggests that I'll be saying "um, any questions?" around a 10 minute mark ;)

[10:54] <tadzik> it feels like it could be longer, but I remind myself that I don't think I ever actually filled my time slot in practice

[10:54] <timotimo> tadzeno's paradox

[10:55] <daxim> perhaps make a slide that contrasts moose "has" with es6/php7/java8 and what happens there due to the lack of "has"

[10:55] <tadzik> timotimo: indeed :) Thanks, fixed

[10:55] <tadzik> daxim: hm, anything in particular you have in mind?

[10:56] <tadzik> other than the obnoxious verbosity :P

[10:56] <lizmat> .oO( where are the times that you could simply use a hash as an object :-)

[10:56] <daxim> I mean the blur you were jsut alluding to - it does not happen in the other languages, right?

[10:57] <tadzik> daxim: no, I don't think it does. I don't think I've seen this kind of "declarative constructor" anywhere else

[10:58] <tadzik> it's understandable why it found its place in Perl – because argument handling sucks here

[10:59] <tadzik> Perl 6 improves it a lot, but I feel like in this particular area it doesn't really capitalize on it

[10:59] <tadzik> we still declare public attributes to benefit from the free new() and then save our asses with TWEAK and alike

[11:02] *** Rayler left
[11:04] *** [Sno] joined
[11:05] *** curan left
[11:07] *** jmerelo joined
[11:08] *** molaf_ joined
[11:10] *** [particle] joined
[11:11] *** powerbit left
[11:11] *** [particle]1 left
[11:14] *** dolmen joined
[11:14] *** [particle] left
[11:14] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:14] *** [particle] joined
[11:15] <holyghost> I revived Soundn::Tina in p6-Sound-Tina on github, last time I checked it compiled, this way I can work on something different sometimes

[11:16] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:16] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:16] <holyghost> I have to debug it but it should eventually parse several (also custom for sound hackers) WAV file formats then classify patterns in the channels/samples

[11:17] <holyghost> I need a 32 bit WAV file for it

[11:17] *** sena_kun left
[11:17] <holyghost> then debug

[11:19] <holyghost> If I find ioctl in perl6, it might even play the WAV as I go on

[11:20] <holyghost> I didn't choose mp3 TBH as it doesn't have a Dolby functionaility AFAIK

[11:21] <holyghost> The above WAV files are very cool with such an amplifier :-)

[11:21] *** robertle left
[11:21] <holyghost> I need to check the 32 bit version first though, there's no dolby code in it yet

[11:32] *** |Sno| joined
[11:32] *** [Sno] left
[11:33] <Geth> ¦ doc: b867248d64 | (JJ Merelo)++ | util/Dockerfile

[11:33] <Geth> ¦ doc: Minor formatting

[11:33] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b867248d64

[11:37] *** ravenousmoose joined
[11:38] *** demanuel left
[11:44] * jmerelo reminds for those who have not done it yet to fill the survey: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfX6cjuhen2xepsr_Cg8eYSdlEE4wbhufgOR1BrDwStby_hNg/viewform

[11:45] <tobs> jmerelo: for how long do you want to keep it open? I think it would be beneficial to wait for a weekly to pass, for instance.

[11:45] <tobs> (I already filled it, anyway)

[11:46] <jmerelo> tobs: at least a couple of weeks.

[11:46] <tobs> alright!

[11:46] <jmerelo> tobs: I'd like to have at least like 250 answers or so.

[11:46] <jmerelo> tobs: thanks for filling it in.

[11:47] <jmerelo> if you subscribe to any mailing list, please spread the word.

[11:59] *** noisegul_ joined
[12:02] *** noisegul left
[12:03] *** dolmen_ joined
[12:04] *** noisegul joined
[12:04] *** noisegul_ left
[12:04] *** dolmen left
[12:04] <noisegul> Will fill it later as well

[12:13] *** dolmen_ left
[12:40] *** dolmen_ joined
[12:40] *** wyclif left
[12:45] *** dolmen_ left
[13:03] *** dolmen_ joined
[13:05] *** |Sno| left
[13:06] *** mowcat left
[13:06] *** dolmen_ left
[13:07] *** [Sno] joined
[13:09] *** jmerelo left
[13:11] *** dolmen joined
[13:12] *** dolmen left
[13:20] *** dolmen joined
[13:21] *** atweiden-air joined
[13:27] *** dolmen left
[13:33] *** pamplemousse joined
[13:34] *** dolmen joined
[13:37] *** dolmen left
[13:38] *** johnjohn101 joined
[13:46] *** dolmen joined
[13:47] *** wyclif_ joined
[13:47] *** dolmen left
[13:52] *** demanuel joined
[13:55] *** dolmen joined
[13:55] *** dolmen left
[14:07] *** AlexDaniel joined
[14:10] *** wyclif_ left
[14:10] *** wyclif_ joined
[14:12] *** dolmen joined
[14:13] *** atweiden-air left
[14:14] *** dolmen left
[14:30] *** wyclif_ left
[14:31] *** dolmen joined
[14:35] *** dolmen left
[14:39] *** dolmen joined
[14:52] *** dolmen left
[14:55] *** khisanth_ left
[14:58] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! QM (0.0.2) by 03UZLUISF

[15:06] *** dolmen joined
[15:08] *** khisanth_ joined
[15:09] *** nadim_ joined
[15:17] *** sena_kun joined
[15:18] *** woolfy left
[15:25] *** veesh left
[15:26] *** veesh joined
[15:29] *** jmerelo joined
[15:34] *** patrickb left
[15:45] *** nadim_ left
[15:52] *** woolfy joined
[15:55] <jmerelo> 44 answers already to the Perl 6 survey: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfX6cjuhen2xepsr_Cg8eYSdlEE4wbhufgOR1BrDwStby_hNg/viewform Call for participation!

[15:59] <Geth> ¦ doc: lukasvalle++ created pull request #2853: Examples for 6.d checklist

[15:59] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2853

[16:01] <sena_kun> oh, jmerelo++

[16:02] *** mowcat joined
[16:04] <jmerelo> sena_kun: if you think it needs something else to change, just let me know. Or maybe we can do another survey before Riga...

[16:05] <[Sno]> jmerelo: the survey ignores one of the most use-cases, perl covered until now: admin glue, system helper (the dirty work, operations, ...)

[16:09] *** goon_ left
[16:10] *** holyghost left
[16:13] <timotimo> aaw, my compress:zstd module has an extra null byte after decompression

[16:13] <timotimo> will be fun to find that off-by-one :)

[16:15] <jmerelo> [Sno]: There's one person that has added "system integration". Also, "General scripting" is an option, and in fact the most popular.

[16:15] <jmerelo> [Sno]: so, probably not the killer app for Perl 6 right now... 

[16:16] *** nadim_ joined
[16:17] *** molaf_ left
[16:18] <lucs> jmerelo: For what it's worth, have at the end "What do you want to tell us?" or something.

[16:19] <lucs> If that question was there, I would tell you exactly that, I mean, uh, never mind

[16:19] <lucs> ;)

[16:23] <jmerelo> lucs: like a suggestions box or something?

[16:23] <lucs> Right.

[16:23] <jmerelo> OK

[16:23] <lucs> Just saying.

[16:23] <[Sno]> jmerelo: that's what I mean - Perl 6 ignores it (and so that target, what made Perl successful)

[16:25] <jmerelo> lucs: done

[16:25] <lucs> jmerelo: Cool, thanks.

[16:25] *** dakkar left
[16:26] <lucs> jmerelo: Do you know if it's possible to view the results without submitting anything? (I want to look at them from another machine)

[16:26] <jmerelo> [Sno]: different times, different languages... I would also say that what made Perl succesful were CGIs, but anyway, a target audience for a language is not exactly something you bake into it.

[16:27] <jmerelo> lucs: I can share the answers with you, but doing it with everyone else might bias the rest of the answers...

[16:28] <[Sno]> jmerelo: that's probably as wrong as it can be - when it's a different language, it shouldn't be named Perl

[16:28] <lucs> jmerelo: The idea is that my current browser, from which I submitted answers, is so old that I wonder if the results displayed are weird just because of unhandled CSS or something -- the other machine is more up-to-date.

[16:29] <jmerelo> [Sno]: I don't really follow you here. Can you please clarify?

[16:31] <lucs> jmerelo: For example, the "most wanted feature" display is LTA here.

[16:31] <[Sno]> jmerelo: every Perl 6 survey etc. I see, it always tries to cover "high sophisticated" topics

[16:32] <[Sno]> jmerelo: I don't know how to explain it better in chat - it's just "missing" the swiss-army-chainsaw features

[16:32] *** scimon left
[16:32] <Woodi> hi #perl6 :)

[16:33] <[Sno]> hi Woodi 

[16:33] <Woodi> imo, moust wanted feature is already solved: [Ss]pee*d

[16:34] <timotimo> not solved yet

[16:35] <lucs> timotimo: You don't say ;)

[16:35] <Woodi> but it's more complicated as ~2 years ago? big slow down comes from "corectness" patches and 05 slowdown from timotimo++ bytecode hardening ?

[16:35] <jmerelo> [Sno]: how many surveys are there? This is just the third. Anyway, let me tie that with the speed problem. You're probably not going to use it in that quality until it gets a bit faster

[16:35] <timotimo> my bytecode hardening made things slower? :( :(

[16:35] <Woodi> and corectness is high on priot

[16:35] <Geth> ¦ doc: c86c661517 | Coke++ | util/update-and-test

[16:35] <Geth> ¦ doc: Before running tests, insure new deps are installed

[16:35] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/c86c661517

[16:35] <Woodi> *priority...

[16:36] <[Sno]> jmerelo: I mean also any other "language" survey

[16:37] <[Sno]> jmerelo: speed is in most admin cases not that problem -it's from my point of view fast enough for those tasks

[16:37] <Woodi> timotimo: it is just guess

[16:37] <Woodi> that's why I put ? there

[16:37] <timotimo> phew

[16:38] <[Sno]> jmerelo: and please - take it as a feedback where the Perl 6 community is a bit blind at the moment

[16:38] <jmerelo> [Sno]: I don't know then. The point is if that people can add that if they want to the survey. Also, we can't fix perception of the language with a survey. 

[16:38] *** dolmen left
[16:39] <[Sno]> jmerelo: I'm not sure that you understand what I mean

[16:39] <jmerelo> [Sno]: I'm not sure either. That's why I asked for clarification. 

[16:40] <timotimo> i think sno is looking at our survey "what do you use the Camelia Mountainbike for?" and is seeing only "cutting onions", "painting pictures", "sending email" and is wondering where "riding up and down mountains" and "riding on streets" went

[16:41] <[Sno]> I try again: Perl 6 can satisfy most of the needs a sysadmin has - but it's not promoted and it leaves that field for Perl 5 and Python

[16:41] <[Sno]> Get it as a working area which needs to be served

[16:41] *** johnjohn101 left
[16:42] <jmerelo> [Sno]: that's what I got. And I told you that that was covered by "general scripting" and that so far only one person has answered something closer to that. Also, the objetive of the survey is not promotion.

[16:42] <[Sno]> Why was Perl 5 with CGI successful? Because the people who work with the computers knew Perl already

[16:42] <Woodi> [Sno]: just get *that* thing done :)

[16:43] *** [Sno] left
[16:43] <jmerelo> [Sno]: well, they had cut their teeth with cgi-lib.pl... which was the only thing available at the time. 

[16:44] <Woodi> jmerelo: the only dynamic web pages admins allowed to be installed :) C CGI was too hard to review probably

[16:45] <jmerelo> But again, this is just a survey. I have no idea about marketing, really. So maybe you are right about focusing on something else. But one can do what one can do.

[16:45] <timotimo> i don't recall there being any phase where community members were asked to review the questions and answers for the survey?

[16:45] <jmerelo> timotimo: there kind of was last month... 

[16:46] <timotimo> i wonder if i missed it or just forgot about it

[16:46] <Woodi> hey, surveys are not science, relax...

[16:46] <jmerelo> timotimo: but maybe I should have done it again. sena_kun and me are changing things on the fly; it might hamper statistical accuracy, but, well...

[16:47] <jmerelo> timotimo: if you want us to change somethign just let us know. Or we can give you permission.

[16:49] <timotimo> too late to change stuff :)

[16:49] <tobs> jmerelo: didn't you mention you wanted to do another one before Riga, or did I misunderstand? Maybe we can channel suggestions into that one.

[16:51] <lucs> jmerelo: Thanks for doing this.

[16:52] <jmerelo> tobs: please do that.

[16:53] <jmerelo> so one suggestion (by [Sno]), if I got it correctly, is to add "system administration/application glue" to the "What you utilize perl6 for", correct?

[16:53] <Woodi> jmerelo: maybe 2 of them separate ?

[16:54] <jmerelo> Woodi: say again?

[16:55] <Woodi> like eg. - system administration; - application glue

[16:55] <jmerelo> Woodi: OK

[16:55] <jmerelo> Let me do this. I'm going to create a copy of this survey and add directly all suggestions to the copy. That way, they're not lost.

[16:56] <tobs> jmerelo++

[16:56] <tobs> before I even found the survey repo (I'm sure there was one at some point…)

[16:57] <jmerelo> tobs: the previous one is at github.com/JJ/p6survey

[16:57] <jmerelo> I'll post the results and nice charts there too when this one is finished.

[16:58] <tobs> ah, so the survey itself is not in an open format and can't be issue'd or pr'd

[16:58] <Geth> ¦ doc: fbf05c38bd | Coke++ | xt/words.pws

[16:58] <Geth> ¦ doc: learn new word

[16:58] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/fbf05c38bd

[16:58] <tobs> (would maybe have been overkill anyway, but that would have been open all year round)

[16:58] <jmerelo> tobs: it's in GDocs. We'll share the results there too.

[16:59] <jmerelo> tobs: but I usually export it to CSV and post it at the repo

[16:59] <jmerelo> Woodi: done

[16:59] <Woodi> jmerelo++ 

[17:01] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: 09b84e62be | lukasvalle++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: Add example for "R meta operator used with list-associative operators"

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/09b84e62be

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: 988a9df134 | lukasvalle++ | doc/Language/phasers.pod6

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: Extend examples for "CX::Done can be caught inside CONTROL phaser"

[17:13] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[17:13] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/phasers

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/988a9df134

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: 8a17d5d3b9 | (Juan Julián Merelo Guervós)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | 2 files

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: Merge pull request #2853 from lukasvalle/master

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: Examples for 6.d checklist

[17:13] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/8a17d5d3b9

[17:25] *** kotrcka joined
[17:32] *** MasterDuke left
[17:33] *** pamplemousse_ joined
[17:35] *** pamplemousse left
[17:35] *** Rayler joined
[17:48] *** mowcat left
[17:59] <nadim_> evening!

[17:59] <tobs> indeed!

[18:00] <nadim_> bug, I believe, with role from required module, golfed down to death and a something very surprising that makes it work. https://nopaste.linux-dev.org/?1217418

[18:01] <nadim_> shellscript that generated the code and tests it

[18:01] *** bobby joined
[18:05] *** goon_ joined
[18:09] *** john_parr left
[18:11] <vrurg> Do we have any docs on valid variable names?

[18:12] <tobs> vrurg: check "identifiers"

[18:14] <vrurg> m: 'my $v:foo = 42; say $v:foo'

[18:14] <evalable6> vrurg, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «WARNINGS for /tmp/fCDqGgufXy:␤Useless use of constant string "my $v:foo = 42; say $v:foo" in sink context (line 1)␤»

[18:14] <vrurg> m: 'my $v:foo<42> = 42; say $v:foo<42>'

[18:14] <evalable6> vrurg, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «WARNINGS for /tmp/yNzgbJ6GSc:␤Useless use of constant string "my $v:foo<42> = 42; say $v:foo<42>" in sink context (line 1)␤»

[18:14] <vrurg> Strange...

[18:15] <vrurg> m: my $v:foo<b> = 42; say $v:foo<b>

[18:15] <evalable6> vrurg, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «42␤»

[18:15] <vrurg> The doc is incomplete then. :)

[18:15] *** kybr left
[18:15] <vrurg> m: my $v:foo<42> = 42; say $v:foo<42>

[18:15] <evalable6> vrurg, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «42␤»

[18:16] <tobs> that falls under extended identifier, no?

[18:17] <vrurg> Looks like... Need to refresh that one in mind.

[18:17] * vrurg spent too much in nqp/mop for the last two month.

[18:18] *** lucasb_ joined
[18:23] <jmerelo> vrurg: if you don't add the <> it's an adverb; it can't be used in that context.

[18:23] <jmerelo> vrurg: the doc is always incomplete... but tobs is right, that's extended identifier syntax

[18:24] <vrurg> m: my $v:foo = 42; say $foo

[18:24] <evalable6> vrurg, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «(exit code 1) 04===SORRY!04=== Error while compiling /tmp/f_NHgdJWOj␤Variable '$foo' is not declared␤at /tmp/f_NHgdJWOj:1␤------> 03my $v:foo = 42; say 08⏏04$foo␤»

[18:24] <tobs> might be a good opportunity to link R#2948

[18:24] <synopsebot> R#2948 [open]: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2948 Extended identifiers without keys raise "You can't adverb" error

[18:24] <vrurg> m: my $v:foo = 42; say $v:foo

[18:24] <evalable6> vrurg, rakudo-moar 6565810f5: OUTPUT: «42␤»

[18:24] <vrurg> jmerelo: you mean this form?

[18:24] * vrurg already got his mistake. 

[18:25] <jmerelo> vrurg: hum. Yes. I thougt that wouldn't work. 

[18:25] <vrurg> jmerelo: moreover, its documented. :)

[18:25] <tobs> as per docs, it should work. You can omit key or value in the extended part.

[18:25] <jmerelo> vrurg: or rather, if it wouldn't have worked, I would have had an explanation. It does work, well, it makes sense. 

[18:26] <jmerelo> vrurg: :-)

[18:26] *** Rayler left
[18:26] <vrurg> This is how experts act. They can explain any outcome of a flipping coin, but never predict... ;)

[18:26] *** sauvin left
[18:26] <jmerelo> vrurg: well, experts with a bad memory do at least...

[18:27] <vrurg> jmerelo: now you're talking about me...

[18:29] <tobs> nadim_: well, I can reproduce that and don't understand it. Maybe file an issue for rakudo lest it gets swept away in here.

[18:31] <nadim_> I don't understand it either, the "solution" is still making me laugh. Computing is fun!

[18:38] <vrurg> nadim_: I don't know how the regex influences it, but the problem is that required_role is being exported as a class (i.e. it has ClassHOW meta).

[18:41] <nadim_> OK, how does one get it exported as a role?

[18:42] <vrurg> nadim_: Exactly as you've do it. It is a bug.

[18:44] <vrurg> I can promise you nothing, but if you file a ticket I may try looking into it. I have squashed two import bugs already, would be the third one. ;)

[18:45] <sena_kun> vrurg++ # great work on bug fixing

[18:45] <timotimo> https://ci.appveyor.com/project/timo/gtk-simple/build/artifacts

[18:46] <timotimo> get your gtk3, libxml2, zstd, libxml2 dlls for windows 64 here

[18:46] <nadim_> vrurg: I am filling it already

[18:47] <vrurg> sena_kun: just dequeing collected PRs since Feb...

[18:50] <vrurg> It seems to be a regression. 2018.12 doesn't have the problem.

[18:50] *** kotrcka left
[18:51] *** kybr joined
[18:51] * vrurg wish to have bisectable locally...

[18:52] <timotimo> you can have it!

[18:52] <timotimo> it'll download whateverable builds on demand, though, so i twon't be as fast

[18:53] <vrurg> timotimo: It's fine as long as I can have it in background.

[18:53] <nadim_> bug report https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2983

[18:56] *** kaare_ left
[18:56] *** kaare_ joined
[19:00] <nadim_> in any case, this definitively proves that it's wrong to say "if you have 99 propblems and a regexp then you have 100 problems"

[19:00] <vrurg> timotimo: whateverable/xbin/Bisectable.p6?

[19:00] <timotimo> i'm not exactly sure

[19:00] <timotimo> but i've been sent a link in the past, a few times even

[19:00] <timotimo> https://gist.github.com/AlexDaniel/88b38af5db9adcf0b711ac3df31dd431 - is this the same code?

[19:02] <vrurg> timotimo: no, it's different. Thatnks for the link!

[19:03] <timotimo> cool

[19:06] *** jmerelo left
[19:06] <tobs> Suppose I have a Match object without positional captures. I really want to add some to the same Match object. Does anyone have an idea how to do that, even if the answer starts with "use nqp"?

[19:07] <timotimo> you can't .clone and use the named arguments for that purpose?

[19:08] <tobs> I don't think so. The Match is part of a Grammar.parse, so if I make a different object, I will have a hard time fiddling the new one into the Match tree.

[19:09] <timotimo> not necessarily; the match you're handling is usually just an instance of your very own grammar

[19:15] <tobs> I don't understand. The match will be from a subrule and it will be referenced as a (named) capture in the calling rule. So replacing it will involve changing the parent, I think.

[19:16] <tobs> To be specific, I'm trying to rip out the EXPR and related rules from HLL:Grammar into a module. And after a few days' pondering, I think this stunt with just adding positional captures to the operator matches is the most economic solution: https://github.com/perl6/nqp/blob/master/src/HLL/Grammar.nqp#L542-L544

[19:17] <vrurg> timotimo: any idea how to get bisect work quickly? Complains on 'no build for <release>'

[19:17] <tobs> oh, but I'm wide open to suggestions there as well

[19:17] <timotimo> i don't :(

[19:18] <vrurg> Hoplessly: ping AlexDaniel?

[19:18] <lizmat> weekly: http://ajs.github.io/tools/2019/06/12/perl6-integer-sequences.html

[19:18] <notable6> lizmat, Noted!

[19:24] <tobs> vrurg: URLs like this work: https://whateverable.6lang.org/6565810f5c38bd6411848bd6e60258f340732345

[19:24] <tobs> it gives you a .tar.zst of the named commit. But it's probably not nice/viable to download all of them over HTTP.

[19:26] <vrurg> tobs: you mean that in line run-snippet(ensure-build(‘2018.10’),   $code-file); where it actually fails I can use a commit URL?

[19:31] <tobs> vrurg: ah, no, I don't think so. But bisectable collects its local cache of prebuilt rakudos from the above URL and probably unpacks them somewhere to use them. I only glanced at the code.

[19:33] <vrurg> I thought it autofetches what is needed. Even if I download it – where it's to be unpacked then?

[19:49] <tobs> vrurg: I'm not further into the sources as you are probably :) The paths seem to be controlled by a config file which is also mentioned in that bisect.p6 script and fetching and storing builds is in Whateverable::Builds

[19:49] <tobs> (sorry, was distracted)

[19:49] <AlexDaniel> ?

[19:49] <yoleaux> 12 Jun 2019 13:13Z <lizmat> AlexDaniel: I think I've documented all of my commits in the ChangeLog wiki

[19:50] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: hello? :)

[19:51] <AlexDaniel> you're trying to do what exactly? Bisect locally?

[19:51] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: I'm trying to get bisect.p6 working locally to locate a regression. It complains on `no build`

[19:52] <vrurg> Sorry, trying to handle three tasks in parallel. ;)

[19:52] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: this, right? https://gist.github.com/AlexDaniel/88b38af5db9adcf0b711ac3df31dd431

[19:52] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: did you put config-default.json into the same directory?

[19:53] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: yes, I did. The token is in place.

[19:53] <AlexDaniel> you don't need the token, I think

[19:53] <vrurg> It clones into data/moarvm and then fails.

[19:54] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: can I see the gist of what you see?

[19:54] *** kaare_ left
[19:54] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: are zstd and lrzip installed on your system?

[19:54] *** kaare_ joined
[19:54] <vrurg> https://gist.github.com/vrurg/3ea8177056e2edefe3286a16e25a97f3

[19:55] <vrurg> Both are available. Though if shared libs are needed – its macOS. I would probably need to symlink them.

[19:58] <vrurg> Symlinking turns to be useless.

[19:59] *** sivoais joined
[20:01] *** Geth left
[20:01] *** Geth joined
[20:01] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: ah, it's macOS

[20:02] <AlexDaniel> I don't think you can use rakudo compiled for linux on macOS, right?

[20:03] <vrurg> Kinda... ;) As simple as that.. No problem, a Mint VM is for my service anytime. Gonna give it a try.

[20:03] <vrurg> Thanks!

[20:09] *** pamplemousse_ left
[20:10] *** |oLa| left
[20:17] *** powerbit joined
[20:24] *** AlexDaniel left
[20:24] *** antoniogamiz joined
[20:31] *** AlexDaniel joined
[20:31] *** AlexDaniel left
[20:31] *** AlexDaniel joined
[20:31] <AlexDaniel> .tell jmerelo sounds like a fun squashathon http://ajs.github.io/tools/2019/06/12/perl6-integer-sequences.html

[20:31] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[20:43] *** AlexDaniel left
[20:45] *** AlexDaniel joined
[20:46] *** noisegul left
[20:47] <xinming_> !status

[20:47] <xinming_> releasable6: status

[20:47] * timotimo status: slightly drunk, happy that code he's been working on finally works

[20:47] <releasable6> xinming_, Next release in ≈6 days and ≈22 hours. 2 blockers. 221 out of 616 commits logged (⚠ 1 warnings)

[20:47] <releasable6> xinming_, Details: https://gist.github.com/8e1ce920a1985b077496ab0097c63388

[20:48] *** AlexDaniel left
[20:49] *** AlexDaniel joined
[20:55] *** farcas82regreg left
[21:15] *** antoniogamiz left
[21:34] *** molaf joined
[21:41] *** sena_kun left
[21:43] *** pamplemousse_ joined
[21:45] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: any reason you can't throw it into the bot?

[21:53] *** dolmen joined
[21:53] *** Thron joined
[21:54] *** Thron left
[21:58] *** pamplemousse_ left
[21:59] *** Xliff joined
[22:00] <Xliff> \o

[22:00] *** pamplemousse_ joined
[22:00] <Xliff> What does it mean when Perl6 returns this exception: "You cannot create an instance of this type (<MyType>)"

[22:00] <timotimo> it's probably a type backed by the Uninstantiable REPR

[22:01] <timotimo> the only feature that repr has is to give that error when you try to create an instance of it

[22:01] *** Sharparam left
[22:01] *** molaf left
[22:01] <Xliff> OK. Problem is, this happens when I am under Test. If I do perl6 -Ilib -e 'use MyClass; MyClass.new' I do NOT get this error.

[22:02] *** Sharparam joined
[22:02] <Xliff> Ah. So right now, .HOW is returning PackageHOW. I would guess that makes it uninstantiable,  yes?

[22:03] <Xliff> Ah! Misspelled class name. LOL!

[22:04] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: sorry, I was afk. It's a multi-file import-related issue.

[22:04] *** abraxxa left
[22:04] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: so? Make a gist with multiple files and it will work

[22:06] <vrurg> Hm, I've missed that in the documentation. Sure, it will work.

[22:09] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: try it, there are some minor tricks that are required, so while I'm here… :)

[22:11] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03.01 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f#file-role-import-p6

[22:11] <bisectable6> vrurg, Cannot find revision “2019.03.01” (did you mean “2019.03.1”?)

[22:12] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f#file-role-import-p6

[22:12] <bisectable6> vrurg, It looks like a URL, but mime type is ‘text/html; charset=utf-8’ while I was expecting something with ‘text/plain’ or ‘perl’ in it. I can only understand raw links, sorry.

[22:12] <AlexDaniel> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:12] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “to_require.pm” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:12] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, On both starting points (old=2018.12 new=2019.03) the exit code is 0 and the output is identical as well

[22:12] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Output on both points: «»

[22:13] <AlexDaniel> ok it used the wrong file

[22:13] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.10 https://gist.githubusercontent.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f/raw/0d27bf63ff5d17ee5a8e90e63167498017cadbf0/role-import.p6

[22:13] <bisectable6> vrurg, Successfully fetched the code from the provided URL

[22:13] <bisectable6> vrurg, Bisecting by output (old=2018.10 new=2019.03) because on both starting points the exit code is 1

[22:13] <AlexDaniel> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/AlexDaniel/91bd4f10e863bd9535dd0c7c60ee4bbd

[22:13] <bisectable6> vrurg, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/baff39eae3e23985443dc9a655c395b2

[22:13] <bisectable6> vrurg, (2018-10-27) https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/84039f963095bce4e982d0ccaee716458acc2e9a

[22:13] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.p6” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:13] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Bisecting by exit code (old=2018.12 new=2019.03). Old exit code: 0

[22:13] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/9af23f161333175c97146cb8c9af6f9a

[22:13] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, There are 2 candidates for the first “new” revision. See the log for more details

[22:14] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: does that look right?

[22:14] <vrurg> No, it didn't load the module.

[22:14] *** pamplemousse_ left
[22:14] <vrurg> Perhaps it tried with .p6 only, didn't fetch .pm

[22:15] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: so the file is in sandbox/to_require.pm

[22:15] <AlexDaniel> what's the deal with $*PROGRAM.parent.absolute ?

[22:16] <AlexDaniel> that's probably in a completely different place, can we just say `require ("sandbox/to_require.pm")` ?

[22:16] <vrurg> It's how the bug was reported. I'll try locally without it thing.

[22:17] *** pamplemousse_ joined
[22:18] <vrurg> require ("./to_require.pm") doesn't find the file.

[22:18] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:19] <bisectable6> vrurg, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:19] <bisectable6> vrurg, Bisecting by output (old=2018.12 new=2019.03) because on both starting points the exit code is 1

[22:19] <bisectable6> vrurg, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/5e186f35d1c8171414e91650d19a185a

[22:19] <bisectable6> vrurg, (2017-07-30) https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/2d007bf431c173c70bc6f964c5cb8d2da0e5bdae

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> c: 2d007bf43^,2d007bf43 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:20] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “to_require.pm” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:20] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¦2d007bf43^,2d007bf: «»

[22:20] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: please add # MAIN comment into the executable file

[22:21] *** rindolf left
[22:21] <AlexDaniel> or rename your .pm file as .pm6

[22:22] <AlexDaniel> that's why: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/blob/232fe26a27f9da6290363c1d958531f319c562c7/lib/Whateverable/Processing.pm6#L110-L114

[22:22] <vrurg> I did both.

[22:22] <AlexDaniel> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:22] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:22] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Bisecting by output (old=2018.12 new=2019.03) because on both starting points the exit code is 1

[22:23] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/655f757b3b1ec45886e7dcb4dedec61c

[22:23] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, (2017-07-30) https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/2d007bf431c173c70bc6f964c5cb8d2da0e5bdae

[22:23] <AlexDaniel> c: 2d007bf43^,2d007bf43 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:23] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:23] <committable6> AlexDaniel, https://gist.github.com/1cc63356d0fe120d007d830c9676e70c

[22:24] <vrurg> Doesn't it add sandbox to includes?

[22:24] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: ah, perhaps add `use lib ‘sandbox’;`

[22:24] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:25] <bisectable6> vrurg, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:25] <bisectable6> vrurg, Bisecting by exit signal (old=2018.12 new=2019.03). Old exit signal: 0 (None)

[22:25] <vrurg> YES! ;)

[22:26] <AlexDaniel> ok yeah, that looks promising

[22:26] <bisectable6> vrurg, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/c3585346ab2366ae78560415f9c8a4c2

[22:26] <bisectable6> vrurg, (2019-03-07) https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/47e34445f48430ade9f19bf76631b7d6adea5d84

[22:26] <AlexDaniel> what the

[22:27] <AlexDaniel> sooooo, ok, I guess it doesn't happen every time?

[22:27] <AlexDaniel> c: 47e34445f^,47e34445f^,47e34445f^,47e34445f,47e34445f,47e34445f https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:27] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:28] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¦47e34445f^,47e34445f^,47e34445f^,47e3444,47e3444,47e3444: «Cannot mix in non-composable type Any into object of type Int␤  in block <unit> at sandbox/role-import.pl line 6␤␤ «exit code = 1»»

[22:28] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: what are we looking for exactly?

[22:29] <vrurg> on 2019.03+ it is invariably reproducible. A role gets punned upon import and mixing in with does dies because of uncomposable.

[22:30] <vrurg> I think it is punned or how else it's meta becomes ClassHOW.

[22:31] <vrurg> Let me change it so the output would be changing, not the exit code.

[22:31] *** dolmen left
[22:31] <vrurg> bisectable6: bad=2019.03 good=2018.12 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:32] <bisectable6> vrurg, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:32] <bisectable6> vrurg, Bisecting by output (old=2018.12 new=2019.03) because on both starting points the exit code is 0

[22:32] <bisectable6> vrurg, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/6865413a3e1bdd8c6d26fa1e3eba8cbb

[22:32] <bisectable6> vrurg, (2017-07-30) https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/2d007bf431c173c70bc6f964c5cb8d2da0e5bdae

[22:32] <AlexDaniel> c: 2d007bf431^,2d007bf431 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:32] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:33] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¦2d007bf431^,2d007bf: «Perl6::Metamodel::ParametricRoleHOW␤»

[22:33] <AlexDaniel> that's what I don't get?

[22:33] *** dolmen joined
[22:34] <vrurg> "Could not open sandbox/role-import.pl. Failed to stat file: no such file or directory" in bisect log. Is it normal?

[22:34] <vrurg> ParametricRoleHOW is the right answer. 

[22:34] <AlexDaniel> well, it affects the result for sure, but I'm not sure why that happens

[22:35] <vrurg> But it bisected to a commit dating back to 2017 whereas things worked in 2018. That doesn't look right.

[22:36] <AlexDaniel> 6c: https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:36] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:37] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: I'm guessing that it is something that was merged much later

[22:37] <AlexDaniel> I don't remember the history of that commit though

[22:37] <committable6> AlexDaniel, https://gist.github.com/82ee7e55e6d39d35e7956dd28130c16d

[22:37] <AlexDaniel> let's try our luck :)

[22:38] <AlexDaniel> bisectable6: old=2018.10 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[22:38] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[22:38] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, Bisecting by output (old=2018.10 new=6565810) because on both starting points the exit code is 0

[22:39] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, bisect log: https://gist.github.com/78877344cdd37948885f01896dae07df

[22:39] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, There are 2 candidates for the first “new” revision. See the log for more details

[22:41] <vrurg> Good, something to look into!

[22:41] <AlexDaniel> that's still not right because it hit some weird stuff on its way…

[22:45] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: right. Both candidates are not related.

[22:46] *** Cabanossi left
[22:46] <vrurg> Ok, I though that'd be something to work with on my flight to Pittsburg. No luck.

[22:47] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: anyway, thanks a lot! It was a good opportunity to learn bisectable tricks.

[22:53] *** Cabanossi joined
[22:56] *** pamplemousse_ left
[23:00] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: see this:

[23:00] <AlexDaniel> c: 5bbaabb9c6^^^^^^,5bbaabb9c6^^^^^,5bbaabb9c6^^^^,5bbaabb9c6^^^,5bbaabb9c6^^,5bbaabb9c6^,5bbaabb9c6 https://gist.github.com/vrurg/2700db3d81241e2c7a7be92aa44a855f

[23:00] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Using file “role-import.pl” as a main file, other files are placed in “sandbox/”

[23:01] <committable6> AlexDaniel, https://gist.github.com/fc766d48964f62a232d2bc00f30dd46c

[23:01] <AlexDaniel> vrurg: so one of these 5 commits

[23:02] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: indeed. 

[23:04] *** dolmen left
[23:06] <vrurg> AlexDaniel: Thanks again! Now it should be easier to locate the problem.

[23:20] <AlexDaniel> you're welcome :)

