[00:04] *** sno left
[00:07] *** krychu left
[00:34] *** softmoth joined
[00:38] <tony-o_> 3what are you trying to do Xliff 

[00:45] <Xliff> vrurg: I could, but it would require a LOT more in the way of repetitive code.

[00:45] <Xliff> I did figure out what was going wrong, though.

[00:46] <vrurg> Xliff: code sample?

[00:48] <Xliff> https://paste.fedoraproject.org/paste/At-WTj~s1IqYAeIIx0CYPw

[00:49] <vrurg> Where it fails? What did you figured out?

[00:52] <Xliff> Was providing wrap with a block, not a sub.

[00:52] <Xliff> Not enough real examples on it to get that from the docs.

[00:53] <vrurg> Did you have 'return' in the block?

[00:57] <Xliff> No. nextsame

[01:00] <vrurg> That's anyway not correct error. Could you, pls, make a ticket? Maybe I'll have time for it some day.

[01:03] *** molaf_ joined
[01:07] *** molaf left
[01:27] *** Kaiepi joined
[02:13] *** Sgeo_ joined
[02:16] *** Sgeo left
[02:18] *** Cabanoss- joined
[02:20] *** Cabanossi left
[02:20] *** Cabanoss- is now known as Cabanossi

[02:37] *** Cabanossi left
[02:43] *** Cabanossi joined
[02:44] *** Actualeyes left
[03:39] *** ponbiki left
[03:40] *** ponbiki joined
[03:56] *** softmoth left
[04:34] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[05:04] *** Sgeo_ left
[05:04] *** Sgeo_ joined
[05:06] *** jmerelo joined
[05:08] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[05:08] <tellable6> 2019-10-09T19:56:23Z #perl6 <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: https://github.com/FCO/Librarify/blob/master/lib/ZefLib.pm6

[05:08] <releasable6> jmerelo, Next release in ‚âà9 days and ‚âà13 hours. R6 is down. At least 5 blockers. Unknown changelog format

[05:08] <releasable6> jmerelo, Details: https://gist.github.com/efa65c93e0a5ea313432b3f22f1e86e5

[05:09] <jmerelo> .tell SmokeMachine cool!

[05:09] <tellable6> jmerelo, I'll pass your message to SmokeMachine

[05:26] *** ravenousmoose joined
[05:31] *** ravenousmoose left
[05:32] *** sauvin joined
[05:42] *** wamba joined
[05:45] *** ZzZombo_ joined
[05:48] *** ZzZombo left
[05:48] *** ZzZombo_ is now known as ZzZombo

[06:08] *** sno joined
[06:09] *** Sgeo_ left
[06:09] *** Sgeo_ joined
[06:24] *** jmerelo left
[06:32] *** reportable6 left
[06:34] *** reportable6 joined
[06:34] *** Cabanossi left
[06:37] *** molaf_ left
[06:43] *** sena_kun joined
[06:46] *** Cabanossi joined
[07:14] <SmokeMachine> .

[07:14] *** ravenousmoose joined
[07:14] <tellable6> 2019-10-10T05:09:04Z #perl6 <jmerelo> SmokeMachine cool!

[07:19] *** ravenousmoose left
[07:19] *** krychu joined
[07:21] *** krychu left
[07:35] *** dakkar joined
[07:38] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:39] *** wamba left
[07:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:40] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:41] *** |oLa|1 left
[07:45] *** Xliff left
[07:50] *** ZzZombo_ joined
[07:53] *** ZzZombo left
[07:53] *** ZzZombo_ is now known as ZzZombo

[07:54] *** scimon joined
[08:05] *** zakharyas joined
[08:19] *** wamba joined
[08:38] *** leont joined
[08:51] *** pmurias left
[08:56] *** ZzZombo_ joined
[08:59] *** ZzZombo left
[08:59] *** ZzZombo_ is now known as ZzZombo

[09:03] *** molaf joined
[09:08] *** kensanata joined
[09:37] *** wamba left
[09:39] *** leont left
[09:39] *** molaf left
[09:46] *** xinming left
[09:46] *** xinming joined
[09:52] *** Black_Ribbon left
[09:54] *** scimon left
[09:54] *** scimon joined
[10:07] *** pmurias joined
[10:12] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[10:17] *** wamba joined
[10:17] *** softmoth joined
[10:18] *** wamba left
[10:18] *** wamba joined
[10:25] *** zakharyas left
[10:27] *** zakharyas joined
[10:33] *** wamba left
[10:47] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[10:53] *** reach_satori joined
[10:58] *** squashable6 left
[11:01] *** squashable6 joined
[11:01] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[11:01] *** wamba joined
[11:05] *** softmoth left
[11:12] *** pmurias left
[11:16] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: status

[11:16] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, ‚ö†üçï Next SQUASHathon in ‚âà16 hours (2019-10-12 UTC-12‚åÅUTC+20). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[11:16] <AlexDaniel> sooo‚Ä¶?

[11:30] <sena_kun> maybe checking old rt queue tickets? or we did that relatively recently?

[11:31] *** apathor left
[11:32] *** macaronus left
[11:37] *** veesh left
[11:40] *** veesh joined
[11:45] <lizmat> weekly: https://www.reddit.com/r/perl6/comments/dfwh57/what_to_do_with_the_compiler_book/

[11:45] <notable6> lizmat, Noted! (weekly)

[11:45] *** veesh left
[11:58] *** finanalyst joined
[12:01] <tadzik> hah, I wonder who this /u/deeptext is :>

[12:01] <tadzik> good response, lizmat++

[12:01] <timotimo> you know, though, right?

[12:02] <tadzik> yes

[12:02] <timotimo> OK

[12:11] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:11] *** aborazmeh left
[12:11] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:16] <El_Che> lol

[12:16] *** veesh joined
[12:17] *** zakharyas left
[12:23] *** gabiruh_ joined
[12:24] *** veesh left
[12:26] *** gabiruh left
[12:27] *** veesh joined
[12:28] *** lucasb joined
[12:41] <lucasb> oh, I only have till monday to write a comment in #81 :-)

[12:44] <El_Che> lucasb: if it's nothing new I would recommend to keep the noise low

[12:48] *** finanalyst left
[12:55] *** ravenousmoose joined
[13:11] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: you can also leave a comment after that

[13:12] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: something like ‚ÄúBut‚Ä¶ but!! You can't rename it! You can't!‚Äù

[13:12] <AlexDaniel> :)

[13:19] *** aborazmeh left
[13:20] <AlexDaniel> sena_kun: we will do that later when RT tickets are transferred to github

[13:38] *** ravenousmoose left
[14:26] *** Guest93 left
[14:31] <tbrowder> regarding the path to raku, the last bullet point is confusing to me...

[14:33] <tbrowder> at lang ver 6.e, should we not be encouraging changing to raku for modules?

[14:40] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder: which one exactly?

[14:40] *** zakharyas joined
[14:45] <tbrowder> let me find it again...switching to use .raku ... in module code... most modules will not be doing this

[14:45] *** Guest93 joined
[14:45] <tbrowder> it may be so, but that statement is not very positive

[14:47] <tbrowder> i would say something more like "module authors are encouraged to start transforming their code..."

[14:47] <tbrowder> afk&

[14:49] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder: it's about the .raku method

[14:49] <AlexDaniel> most modules indeed don't use it

[14:49] <AlexDaniel> greppable6: \.perl

[14:50] <greppable6> AlexDaniel, 3079 lines, 446 modules: https://gist.github.com/ed38903b2b1bb2de65218e8a976497db

[14:50] *** daxim left
[14:50] <AlexDaniel> greppable6: \.perl\b

[14:50] <greppable6> AlexDaniel, 2215 lines, 336 modules: https://gist.github.com/4322514ee9d50fbccaba9dd4290dada3

[14:51] <AlexDaniel> ok maybe they do

[14:53] <AlexDaniel> ‚ÄúThe hijack lobby‚Äù :D

[14:56] <uzl[m]> AlexDaniel: If the rename goes through, will there be an official announcement detailing the history of Perl 6, how the community came up with the new name, etc? If so, I'd like it to be similar to a press release with the microphones, TV cameras, etc? üòÅÔøΩüòÅÔøΩüòÅ

[14:57] <AlexDaniel> uzl[m]: there will be if you do it :)

[14:59] <AlexDaniel> but yeah, I hope somebody writes a nice blog post or announcement

[15:02] <uzl[m]> We might need a camera crew and all that stuff :-)

[15:03] <AlexDaniel> I mean, if you really want something like that, then doing it on a conference is a great way

[15:05] <moritz> may I suggest the German Perl Workshop, March 4th-6th?

[15:06] <AlexDaniel> there's also London Perl Workshop in 9 days

[15:06] *** vrurg left
[15:07] *** vrurg joined
[15:08] *** wamba left
[15:17] *** Guest93 left
[15:17] <uzl[m]> I was joking about the camera stuff ;-) but I think going with the rename as planned and then announcing it in a workshop seems like a good idea.

[15:21] *** kensanata left
[15:27] *** grayrider joined
[15:30] *** vrurg left
[15:30] *** vrurg joined
[15:34] *** Kaiepi left
[15:36] *** Guest3346 left
[15:37] *** scimon left
[15:44] *** pauld joined
[15:45] *** jmerelo joined
[15:46] *** zakharyas left
[15:48] *** xelxebar left
[16:01] *** Guest93 joined
[16:01] *** ravenousmoose joined
[16:06] *** ravenousmoose left
[16:09] *** grayrider left
[16:12] *** pmurias joined
[16:13] <TreyHarris> A quick OT story that I was just reminded of and may be nostalgic for some of you: when I first met Audrey Tang in 2004, she was the most brilliant unschooled programmer I'd ever met. I'd noticed she could solve thorny problems in remarkably innovative ways (just look at her work on Pugs for one example). If you asked her a hard problem, she'd stare of into the middle distance for about 15 seconds, and then

[16:13] <TreyHarris> give you a brilliant solution. So one day during a lunch at a YAPC I asked her the halting problem, dressed up into a real Perl problem I claimed to have. She stared off for 15 seconds, opened her mouth, closed it, stared off for 20 seconds more, opened her mouth, closed it, got a furrowed brow and stared off for another 30 seconds, then said, clearly a bit distressed, "I... don't believe... you can do that??"

[16:13] <SmokeMachine> If it's going to be announced on the LPW, please let me know it some time before it... I need some time to s:g/perl6/raku/ on my slides...

[16:13] <TreyHarris> I honestly think she'd just proved the unsolvability of the halting problem in her head on the spot.

[16:14] <pmurias> vrurg: Configure.pl in nqp fails to fetch the NQP::Config when nqp is used as a submodule

[16:14] *** wamba joined
[16:15] <pmurias> TreyHarris: dunno, the halting seems intuitively unsolvable

[16:15] <vrurg> pmurias: nqp as a submodule? 

[16:15] <vrurg> pmurias: where?

[16:15] <timotimo> TreyHarris: that seems a little mean :)

[16:16] <TreyHarris> pmurias: If you dress it up well enough and haven't heard of it, it's not so intuitive. "I hate how if you do perl -c on certain programs, it actually runs the program, can we fix that so perl -c catches it?" for example.

[16:17] <TreyHarris> timotimo: I wasn't going to let her lock up for much longer if she looked determined to solve it. :-)

[16:18] <TreyHarris> Though, pmurias, you are right that the brilliance of Turing's proof wasn't in answering the question of the halting problem but in showing it was equivalent to the Entscheidungsproblem and hence it, too, was unsolvable

[16:21] <pmurias> vrurg: in my yet unreleased repo for making a bunch of npm plugins

[16:21] <pmurias> s/plugins/packages

[16:21] <pmurias> vrurg: the repo is a yarn workspace containing a bunch of other repos

[16:22] <pmurias> not sure if submodules are the way to solve it

[16:26] *** Kaiepi joined
[16:27] <pmurias> TreyHarris: I would be surprised if au didn't know what the halting problem is, you don't need a formal education to pick up an equivalent from bits and pieces you encounter from programming books and looking stuff up wikipedia ;)

[16:28] <TreyHarris> pmurias: after I explained I was joking, it turned out she hadn't, though was aware there were both practically unsolvable problems and provably unsolvable problems

[16:31] *** dakkar left
[16:41] <pmurias> the pugs era seems so far away, I remember beeing a gangly teen in awe how fast au was developing it

[16:42] *** rindolf4 joined
[16:42] *** |oLa| joined
[16:42] <rindolf4> Hi all. sup?

[16:42] <rindolf4> TimToady: here?

[16:50] <AlexDaniel> rindolf4: I don't think so, but why do you need to talk to TimToady?

[16:53] <rindolf4> AlexDaniel: hi, https://www.shlomifish.org/me/rindolf/ - related to this

[16:53] <rindolf4> AlexDaniel: Taylor Swift became a new hacker monarch

[16:55] <TreyHarris> rindolf4:Since your post explaining what your definition of hacker monarch is was on Google+, you might want to reiterate it elsewhere ;-)

[16:56] <tbrowder> AlexDaniel: thanks, i didn‚Äôt catch that!

[16:56] *** wildtrees joined
[16:56] <AlexDaniel> rindolf4: I am very confused :D

[16:57] *** wildtrees left
[16:57] *** wildtrees joined
[17:01] *** agentzh left
[17:03] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: thanks for the comment - I have a zipball of my old g+ posts at home.

[17:03] *** agentzh joined
[17:04] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: if you want i can try to explain that only to this channel

[17:09] <TreyHarris> rindolf4:not for me, I don't serve as Larry's gatekeeper ;-)

[17:11] *** chloekek joined
[17:11] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: ok

[17:12] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: I think TimToady already sort of gets it

[17:13] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: given he was one

[17:16] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: see https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/ -  I'll add some Taylor Swift factoids after I get home

[17:16] *** grayrider joined
[17:16] <vrurg> pmurias: should be find with --recursive. Can't tell more without testing.

[17:17] <rindolf4> currently my site is kinda broken

[17:19] <pmurias> vrurg: any ideas how to deal with that?

[17:20] <rindolf4> TreyHarris: https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1175578541292957696

[17:21] <vrurg> pmurias: I don't even understand what exactly goes wrong. Try `git config submodule.recurse true` in your repo?

[17:21] <pmurias> vrurg: --recursive is what I want

[17:23] <vrurg> pmurias: I'll be quite busy following hours. You could either open an issue or email me directly with details.

[17:32] <pmurias> vrurg: solved the problem

[17:33] <vrurg> pmurias: How?

[17:34] <vrurg> --recursive or config var?

[17:36] *** rindolf4 left
[17:36] <pmurias> in my topmost release-everything repo I use 'git submodule update --init --recursive' at the start of the release process

[17:37] <pmurias> vrurg: and that set up the nqp-configure submodule so that Configure.pl didn't have to do anything

[17:39] <vrurg> Still wonder why didn't it do it's job. Can I use your repo for test? Which one if yes?

[17:44] *** wamba left
[17:45] *** wamba joined
[18:09] *** gtodd left
[18:18] *** jmerelo left
[18:22] *** sauvin left
[18:30] *** |oLa| left
[18:33] <Geth_> ¬¶ problem-solving: cognominal assigned to jnthn Issue 0.0.gist returns "0.0" instead of "0" but 0.0.perl works as expected https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/113

[18:40] *** chloekek left
[18:45] *** ravenousmoose joined
[18:45] <tbrowder> AlexDaniel: any guidance on how to handle names in p6/raku advent posts?

[18:57] <TreyHarris> Advent won't start until well after the current date for changing the marketing name... so call it Raku but in scripts continue to use #! perl6 and use v6...?

[18:57] *** pmurias left
[19:18] *** zakharyas joined
[19:20] *** molaf joined
[19:20] *** pecastro joined
[19:41] *** wildtrees left
[19:42] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder: yep, call it Raku unless you want to talk about raku history

[19:53] *** ZZZzz joined
[19:55] <MasterDuke> anyone know when (in the day) the talks are going to start for the london perl workshop?

[19:57] <ZZZzz> Hi! I'd like to transform the list (["a", 1], ["b", 2], ["c", 3]) into (["a", "b", "c"],[1, 2, 3]). What is the functional (non-iterative) way to do this in perl6?

[20:01] *** mensvaga left
[20:08] *** ravenousmoose left
[20:09] <Grinnz> that's called zipping, to give you something to search

[20:10] <timotimo> the roundrobin sub will also do this for you if i'm not mistaken; or maybe it does the inverse

[20:11] <MasterDuke> m: say zip ["a", 1], ["b", 2], ["c", 3]

[20:11] <camelia> rakudo-moar 1fef78388: OUTPUT: ¬´((a b c) (1 2 3))‚ê§¬ª

[20:12] <lucasb> m: say zip <a b c>, <1 2 3>

[20:12] <camelia> rakudo-moar 1fef78388: OUTPUT: ¬´((a 1) (b 2) (c 3))‚ê§¬ª

[20:12] <lucasb> zip and unzip, 2 in 1 :)

[20:24] *** gtodd joined
[20:30] *** macaronus joined
[20:31] *** sankamur joined
[20:39] <ZZZzz> Perfect, this is very elegant. Thank you all!

[20:56] <AlexDaniel> ZZZzz: just keep in mind the edge cases

[20:57] <timotimo> yes, if there's only one list

[20:57] <AlexDaniel> m: say zip ["a", 1]

[20:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar 1fef78388: OUTPUT: ¬´((a 1))‚ê§¬ª

[20:59] <ZZZzz> AlexDaniel Thank you. In this case it won't be a problem. I need this transformation for nicer maintainability of the input for the trans() function.

[21:10] *** ravenousmoose joined
[21:14] *** ravenousmoose left
[21:15] *** raydiak__ left
[21:16] *** raydiak__ joined
[21:17] *** zakharyas left
[21:30] *** xelxebar joined
[21:30] *** sena_kun left
[21:37] <tbrowder> AlexDaniel: ah, so! will do. i guess i'll wake up some morning after 12 oct and find myself in raku land  ;^D

[21:46] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder: Oct 14th

[21:46] <AlexDaniel> but yeah, sounds about right

[21:48] *** wamba left
[21:48] *** reach_satori left
[21:49] *** reach_satori joined
[21:52] <tbrowder> thnx for all the hard work you folks put into the upcoming change!! fingers crossed...

[21:53] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:53] *** aborazmeh left
[21:53] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:55] *** cxreg joined
[21:58] *** MasterDuke left
[21:58] *** aborazmeh left
[22:01] *** pecastro left
[22:08] <Geth_> ¬¶ ecosystem: de5310a66d | tony-o++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[22:08] <Geth_> ¬¶ ecosystem: DB::Xoos::MySQL

[22:08] <Geth_> ¬¶ ecosystem: 

[22:08] <Geth_> ¬¶ ecosystem: Part of the refactor so you don't need to install everything and its mom to use an ORM.  Based on DB::MySQL

[22:08] <Geth_> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/de5310a66d

[22:11] <discord6> <Aearnus> 4 more days! Y'all need any extra hands for outstanding issues or anything like that?

[22:14] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:27] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:27] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:27] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:42] <AlexDaniel> Aearnus: well, yeah, would be nice if someone takes care of the squashathon :)

[22:42] <AlexDaniel> Aearnus: I've been delaying it because we don't seem to have a good topic and nobody is volunteering to take care of it (I personally don't have enough energy to think about it right now)

[22:43] <AlexDaniel> releasable6: status

[22:43] <releasable6> AlexDaniel, Next release in ‚âà8 days and ‚âà20 hours. R6 is down. At least 5 blockers. Unknown changelog format

[22:43] <releasable6> AlexDaniel, Details: https://gist.github.com/947932ae39a6a6a890dae0fd28905ed2

[22:43] <AlexDaniel> also, hmmm, this‚Ä¶

[22:49] *** pauld left
[23:28] *** camelCaser left
[23:30] *** leont joined
[23:30] *** b2gills left
[23:33] *** camelCaser joined
[23:40] *** khisanth_ left
[23:45] *** b2gills joined
[23:57] *** khisanth_ joined
