[00:06] *** kensanata left
[00:08] *** guifa left
[00:09] *** pecastro left
[00:19] *** zachk left
[00:26] *** guifa joined
[00:29] *** w_richard_w joined
[00:44] *** aborazmeh left
[00:46] *** MasterDuke joined
[00:47] *** MasterDuke left
[00:47] *** MasterDuke joined
[01:00] *** meuirkat joined
[01:04] *** cosimo joined
[01:08] *** lizmat left
[01:20] *** Cabanossi left
[01:20] *** Cabanossi joined
[01:41] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:41] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:41] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[01:48] *** someuser left
[01:50] *** vrurg joined
[01:54] *** Kaypie joined
[01:54] *** Kaiepi left
[01:58] *** vrurg left
[02:00] *** guifa left
[02:01] *** vrurg joined
[02:05] *** markoong left
[02:07] *** Kaypie left
[02:08] *** Kaiepi joined
[02:17] <AlexDaniel> moritz: ah‚Ä¶ right. But I still can't add other people to the perl6-community-modules org. Please add zoffix: https://github.com/zoffixznet/perl6-buggable/issues/16#issuecomment-457791888

[02:19] *** molaf left
[02:30] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[02:30] *** kurahaupo left
[02:30] *** w_richard_w left
[02:30] *** leont left
[02:31] *** kurahaupo_ left
[02:32] *** molaf joined
[02:33] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:03] *** kurahaupo left
[03:03] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[03:09] *** kurahaupo_ left
[03:09] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:13] *** mowcat left
[03:28] *** kurahaupo left
[03:29] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:29] *** kurahaupo left
[03:29] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:30] *** kurahaupo left
[03:31] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:31] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[03:35] *** kurahaupo left
[03:40] *** kurahaupo_ left
[03:40] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:43] *** jeek left
[03:44] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[03:45] *** kurahaupo left
[03:46] *** kurahaupo_ left
[03:46] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:49] *** ufobat__ joined
[03:49] *** kurahaupo left
[03:50] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:51] *** kurahaupo left
[03:51] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:53] *** ufobat_ left
[03:54] *** kurahaupo left
[03:54] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[03:55] *** kurahaupo_ left
[03:55] *** kurahaupo joined
[03:57] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[03:57] *** kurahaupo left
[03:58] *** kurahaupo_ left
[03:59] *** kurahaupo joined
[04:00] *** kurahaupo left
[04:00] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[04:09] *** zacts joined
[04:09] *** dataf3l joined
[04:10] *** dataf3l left
[04:36] *** zacts left
[04:39] *** zacts joined
[04:45] *** Cabanoss- joined
[04:46] *** Cabanossi left
[05:00] <SmokeMachine> Guys, I‚Äôm moving to uk... is there something I should know other then brexit?

[05:08] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:09] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:10] *** kurahaupo left
[05:10] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:11] *** kurahaupo left
[05:11] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:12] *** _isomorphismes joined
[05:12] *** kurahaupo left
[05:12] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:12] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:13] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:15] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:16] *** kurahaupo left
[05:16] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:16] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:19] *** kurahaupo left
[05:19] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:20] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:20] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:31] *** jme` joined
[05:32] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:32] *** kurahaupo left
[05:36] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:36] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:41] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:42] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:42] *** kurahaupo left
[05:42] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:43] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:45] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:45] *** kurahaupo left
[05:46] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:46] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: from where? :)

[05:47] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[05:49] *** kurahaupo left
[05:49] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:50] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:51] *** kurahaupo left
[05:51] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:00] *** kurahaupo left
[06:01] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[06:01] *** kurahaupo_ left
[06:01] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:02] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[06:02] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: from Brazil...

[06:04] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: good news! docs.perl6.org will be opening up faster!

[06:04] <AlexDaniel> by, like, a few milliseconds? maybe even tens of milliseconds!

[06:04] <SmokeMachine> :)

[06:05] *** kurahaupo_ left
[06:06] *** kurahaupo left
[06:06] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[06:06] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: something that I saw is more technical meeting on London then in Brazil...

[06:06] *** kurahaupo_ left
[06:06] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:07] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: are you going to the next one?

[06:08] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/gbORnk4f/1548482906.JPG

[06:09] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: no. I'm not in UK, and honestly can't afford to travel right now :)

[06:10] <SmokeMachine> That‚Äôs not right now... that‚Äôs in 1 month...

[06:10] <AlexDaniel> I mean, during this period of my life :)

[06:10] <SmokeMachine> I‚Äôd like to know you...

[06:11] <AlexDaniel> I haven't been to *any* conference yet, actually. I was thinking maybe fosdem, but now‚Ä¶ maybe fosdem 2020 :)

[06:11] <SmokeMachine> I‚Äôd like to know you, jjmerelo, lizmat, jnhtn, and zoffix...

[06:12] <AlexDaniel> yeah, I'd love to meet people

[06:12] <SmokeMachine> And a lot of people of this channel (I know zoffix isn‚Äôt on this channel anymore...)

[06:13] <AlexDaniel> .tell moritz https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2019-01-26#l29

[06:13] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: I'll pass your message to moritz.

[06:13] *** _isomorphismes left
[06:14] <SmokeMachine> But zoffix has a very important place on my history on perl6 (imho)

[06:14] <SmokeMachine> Please add zoffix!!!

[06:17] <SmokeMachine> Imho zoffix is extremely important on perl6 history, I know I‚Äôm now aware of all of it, but on everything I saw, he was important!

[06:17] *** kurahaupo left
[06:17] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:17] <AlexDaniel> I know‚Ä¶ I think most people know, actually

[06:18] <SmokeMachine> And I hope he will be back some day...

[06:18] *** kurahaupo left
[06:18] *** someuser joined
[06:18] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[06:18] *** kurahaupo_ left
[06:19] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:20] *** Cabanoss- left
[06:20] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: (where should moritz add zoffix?)

[06:21] *** Cabanossi joined
[06:22] *** someuser left
[06:22] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: it's a technical issue. Zoffix no longer wants to maintain their modules, so we are trying to transfer them to perl6-community-modules, but they can't do that without being in perl6-community-modules org, which is something moritz can fix‚Ä¶

[06:26] *** kurahaupo left
[06:27] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:27] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: wouldn‚Äôt be a way to solve that try to make zoffix change his mind?

[06:28] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: yes, but

[06:28] <AlexDaniel> .seen Zoffix

[06:28] <yoleaux> I saw Zoffix 6 Jan 2019 17:41Z in #perl6: <Zoffix> moritz: the project's direction and management style doesn't match my goals and I'll be happier elsewhere.

[06:29] <AlexDaniel> the problem is that for most of the things Zoffix *was* our management, except we never explicitly declared it

[06:30] <AlexDaniel> and this created all sorts of problems, e.g. Zoffix having their hands tied for some things unnecessarily

[06:30] <AlexDaniel> and then some people dismissing their efforts and bullying them for no good reason

[06:31] <SmokeMachine> I agree...

[06:32] <AlexDaniel> anyway, my point is that there's no point asking Zoffix to come back right now because we didn't fix anything

[06:32] <SmokeMachine> And some people blaming him to something that this people thought was wrong...

[06:33] <AlexDaniel> however‚Ä¶ afaik lizmat, jnthn and TimToady are discussing things

[06:33] <SmokeMachine> I think that if he saw that was people on his side... that wouldn‚Äôt happen...

[06:38] <lucs> .

[06:38] <yoleaux> 25 Jan 2019 22:28Z <moritz> lucs: I've answered in a gist comment. You might also want to check out https://www.apress.com/us/book/9781484232279 :D

[06:40] <lucs> moritz: Oh! Nice. Thanks.

[06:42] * lucs ashamedly admits that he has not carefully read the relevant chapters of his recently acquired eBook version of moritz's book,

[06:43] *** sauvin joined
[06:44] <SmokeMachine> lucs: what do you think about that ^^?

[06:45] <lucs> What that is that?

[06:45] <lucs> The book?

[06:46] <lucs> If so, it's excellent!

[06:48] *** rindolf joined
[06:56] *** random_yanek left
[06:59] <lucs> .tell moritz Thanks for the solution. I got your book recently, I need to reread some chapters carefully :)

[06:59] <yoleaux> lucs: I'll pass your message to moritz.

[07:07] *** random_yanek joined
[07:09] *** jmerelo joined
[07:41] *** vrurg left
[08:06] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:10] *** _isomorphismes joined
[08:12] *** llfourn_ joined
[08:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 20258c2385 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/numerics.pod6

[08:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Reflow

[08:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/20258c2385

[08:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 7a6387329b | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[08:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Eliminates spurious . and reflow

[08:12] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/numerics

[08:12] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[08:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/7a6387329b

[08:13] *** llfourn left
[08:14] *** _isomorphismes left
[08:19] *** molaf left
[08:37] *** ExtraCrispy left
[08:43] <tyil> AlexDaniel, SmokeMachine: I'm going to FOSDEM every year, in case you want to meet up

[08:43] <tyil> if I know in advance I can take people into account for airbnb reservations

[08:50] *** someuser joined
[08:59] *** pecastro joined
[08:59] <moritz> lucs: my pleasure

[08:59] <yoleaux> 06:13Z <AlexDaniel> moritz: https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2019-01-26#l29

[08:59] <yoleaux> 06:59Z <lucs> moritz: Thanks for the solution. I got your book recently, I need to reread some chapters carefully :)

[09:00] <moritz> lucs: if you liked the book, I'd very much appreciate a rating on Amazon (doesn't need to be a long review, a short sentence and 5 stars are awesome :D)

[09:00] *** Xliff left
[09:10] <AlexDaniel> moritz: hmmm, I can't invite people

[09:12] <AlexDaniel> moritz: there should be a button https://screenshots.firefox.com/0GJ84QevcozaafWV/github.com

[09:12] <moritz> I'm looking through the settings now

[09:13] <AlexDaniel> ‚ÄúOnly organization owners can invite users to join the organization‚Äù

[09:14] <AlexDaniel> unless they introduced some new setting

[09:15] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: you seem to be "member". You should have been listed as "owner" to do so, I guess.

[09:15] <moritz> AlexDaniel: please try again (reload)

[09:16] <moritz> I've followed the instructions on https://help.github.com/articles/giving-team-maintainer-permissions-to-an-organization-member/

[09:16] <moritz> I though I could give member management privs to a whole team, but it doesn't look like it

[09:16] <moritz> *thought

[09:16] <jmerelo> moritz: probably that only allows to add people to that particular team

[09:17] <AlexDaniel> moritz: no, nothing, and that's a different thing I think

[09:18] <AlexDaniel> it's about managing a team, not an organization

[09:18] <AlexDaniel> ah wait‚Ä¶ hold on

[09:18] <AlexDaniel> yes, I'm correct :)

[09:19] <AlexDaniel> so I can add people to the team as long as they're already in the organization

[09:19] <AlexDaniel> otherwise it says ‚ÄúNot a member of this organization‚Äù if I attempt to add someone

[09:20] <moritz> AlexDaniel: please try yet again :)

[09:21] <AlexDaniel> yes, now I can do things!

[09:21] <AlexDaniel> moritz: thanks

[09:26] *** markoong joined
[09:27] <jmerelo> We need some more ideas for the google summer of code: https://github.com/perl-gsoc-2019/ideas

[09:27] <jmerelo> And mentors

[09:27] <jmerelo> pls send them

[09:28] <AlexDaniel> weekly: <jmerelo> We need some more ideas for the google summer of code: https://github.com/perl-gsoc-2019/ideas

[09:28] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[09:28] <AlexDaniel> weekly: And mentors

[09:29] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[09:29] <AlexDaniel> weekly: pls send them

[09:29] <notable6> AlexDaniel, Noted!

[09:29] <AlexDaniel> :D

[09:29] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: you're going to turn notable6 crazy

[09:30] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: it's fiiine‚Ä¶ if it starts dying there's a watchdog that will finish it

[09:32] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: other than that, did you think about some idea?

[09:33] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2019-01-24#l664

[09:33] <AlexDaniel> that's all I have for now‚Ä¶ just me asking others to be a mentor :)

[09:34] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: but the idea you mention would be worthwhile for the repo.

[09:34] <AlexDaniel> yes

[09:34] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: could you please add it?

[09:35] <AlexDaniel> I'm‚Ä¶ I‚Ä¶

[09:35] <AlexDaniel> releasable6: status

[09:35] <releasable6> AlexDaniel, Next release will happen when it's ready. 7 blockers. 158 out of 257 commits logged

[09:35] <releasable6> AlexDaniel, Details: https://gist.github.com/2449d2bb37d781be77a08fc9d7a8e75c

[09:35] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK

[09:35] <jmerelo> I'll do that

[09:35] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: thank you ‚ô•

[09:35] <jmerelo> But I'm all for credit where credit is due, so I'll say it's your idea.

[09:36] *** ravenousmoose joined
[09:37] <jmerelo> BTW, 3 less, great job :-)

[09:38] <AlexDaniel> mostly not my achievement :)

[09:38] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: I think the way to come up with some good project ideas is to think what sucks in perl¬†6

[09:39] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: well, I'm not too happy about documentation tooling. That's one of the things I have inserted

[09:39] <AlexDaniel> like argument parsing sucks, so that's what we're writing down now‚Ä¶ unicode support used to suck, but then samcv got rid of any potential for a gsoc project ‚ô•

[09:39] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: the ecosystem is also problematic. There's a lot of impedance between zef, modules.perl6.org, and specs.

[09:40] <AlexDaniel> hmm

[09:40] <AlexDaniel> maybe ping ugexe?

[09:40] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: the simple fact that there's only one module manager (one-ish) also sucks. I'd like to see a new one.

[09:40] <AlexDaniel> NEW ONE?

[09:40] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: that has proved not very fruitful in the past.

[09:40] <AlexDaniel> ok, first of all, we had panda‚Ä¶

[09:40] <AlexDaniel> then we said that panda sucks and switched to zef

[09:40] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: right. It's not working now.

[09:41] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: there's a lot of potential in zef, actually. It's an impressive piece of work. Most of what you would like to be there, is there.

[09:41] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: I think it's a good topic in general, but I don't know what exactly needs to be improved. ugexe definitely knows, try talking to them

[09:41] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: as I said, not very fruitful in the past.

[09:42] <AlexDaniel> ahhh, I see

[09:42] <AlexDaniel> nine?

[09:42] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: (also, niner is also involved)

[09:42] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[09:42] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: see all my issues in zef https://github.com/ugexe/zef/issues/created_by/JJ. A very na√Øve, and hopeful, "Include more information on failure" was simply ignored.

[09:43] <AlexDaniel> jnthn: gsoc project? Maybe something related to improving the startup time (which sucks), as long as there's a hardcore student interested in that‚Ä¶

[09:43] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I think I'm going to include all those issues as a GSoC idea. "Do something that is just like zef, except for... "

[09:43] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[09:44] <AlexDaniel> I think zef itself can be improved, no need to reinvent

[09:44] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: as I said, most of the potential is there. I was thinking more along the lines of forking it, eliminating and adding stuff.

[09:44] <samcv> AlexDaniel, <3

[09:44] <yoleaux> 23 Jan 2019 21:21Z <MasterDuke> samcv: the code is a bit complicated, not entirely sure how to un-todo it

[09:45] <AlexDaniel> samcv: but is there something else that can be improved?

[09:45] <samcv> well.

[09:45] <samcv> i'm not sure i'm still working on my ideas for things i could be the mentor for

[09:45] <tyil> the modules website, but I'm preparing for that already

[09:45] <jmerelo> For instance, isomorphismes was talking yesterday about searching in the "description" field using zef search. It so happens you can't do that, but just because the user-facing function can't. The library function is actually prepared for it.

[09:45] <samcv> nice

[09:46] <jmerelo> tyil: modules.perl6.org you mean?

[09:46] <jmerelo> Anyway, you two are going to be mentors, right?

[09:46] <tyil> jmerelo: yes

[09:46] <AlexDaniel> oo that's nice

[09:46] <samcv> yeah i'm planning on it. i must come up with some ideas though

[09:46] <AlexDaniel> tyil++ samcv++

[09:46] <samcv> been very busy as i moved to amsterdam. and now have to move again into my actual apartment

[09:47] <samcv> after finding a place etc so many things :)

[09:47] <tyil> samcv: same

[09:47] <samcv> eventually it will all get done though

[09:47] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: btw they recommend having an up-to-date list of things to work on

[09:47] <jmerelo> who?

[09:47] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:47] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[09:47] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: like, so that we're not writing down projects for gsoc, but that we have these projects all year round

[09:47] <samcv> at minimum i would put down decoding some of the chinese encodings

[09:47] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: we do have the issues.

[09:48] <samcv> that's the largest thing i haven't implemented yet

[09:48] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: I don't remember, somewhere in mentor guides

[09:48] <tyil> documentation is all year round :D

[09:48] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: project ideas will point at issues, actually.

[09:48] <samcv> as far as encoding/decoding. also. they could work at refactoring the encode/decode code

[09:48] <samcv> so that decode and decodestream use the same decoding paths

[09:48] <jmerelo> samcv: can you please add that to the ideas repo?

[09:48] <samcv> yeah i will now while you have my mind :)

[09:49] <samcv> link to the repo just for my ease?

[09:49] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: it's fine to point at issues, as long as you have a separate project description‚Ä¶ but generally I think it's a good idea to have that list and maintain in

[09:49] <tyil> samcv: https://github.com/perl-gsoc-2019/ideas/tree/master/perl6

[09:49] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: i.e. ‚Äúif you want to help, here's a list of big-ish things you can do and these are the people you need to contact‚Äù

[09:49] <samcv> so one file per idea?

[09:49] <tyil> seems like it

[09:49] <jmerelo> samcv: right

[09:50] <samcv> and by the date we submit we should have at least one mentor who is able to take the project on. though we can add ideas before then and find mentor in the mean time

[09:50] <jmerelo> samcv: we need to list one mentor per idea. I'm kind of dodging that by saying "One of the Perl 6 mentors"

[09:51] <tyil> I like the improvement for TLS (OpenSSL module) project, client certs would be neat to have

[09:51] <jmerelo> tyil: we'll add you as a mentor :-)

[09:51] <tyil> woah

[09:51] <tyil> I wouldn't mind being a mentor, but I don't know if I have what it takes 

[09:52] <jmerelo> I think we all have what it takes.

[09:52] <tyil> I'm not that great (cpan-p6 still has memory issues, for instance)

[09:52] <tyil> I'm more than willing to try and help out, though :)

[09:52] <jmerelo> What we have is the will to enlarge the community and get some coders into the Perl 6 pool, and get Google to pay the organization so that we can continue to fund development.

[09:53] <jmerelo> (If I remember correctly, Google pays 50K to the organization, 5K per student)

[09:53] *** admin__ joined
[09:53] <tyil> neat

[09:53] <jmerelo> tyil++

[09:54] <tyil> it's about time I write up a blog post again as well

[09:54] <tyil> to let reddit know Perl 6 is actively being used for cool stuff :p

[09:54] *** meuirkat left
[10:00] *** Skarsnik joined
[10:00] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[10:00] <samcv> i met the guy who made perlito yesterday at my workplace. talked to him a bit about perl 6 stuff. he was much before my time though

[10:00] <samcv> but was cool meeting someone who knew what MoarVM was :)

[10:01] <El_Che> Fl√°vio? A very nice guy

[10:01] <samcv> yeah

[10:01] *** admin__ left
[10:01] <El_Che> saw him last at yapce amsterdam. He has always interesting stuff to say

[10:01] *** admin__ joined
[10:02] <samcv> jmerelo, is there someone handling the perl5 ones? or is it you

[10:02] <samcv> because. i may be able to find some poeple willing to be a mentor at my work. i'll try to put out an APB to possible people

[10:02] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: good news!

[10:04] <samcv> jmerelo, pushed my writeup there

[10:05] <samcv> https://github.com/perl-gsoc-2019/ideas/blob/master/perl6/encoding-decoding.md

[10:07] <Skarsnik> Hello

[10:10] <El_Che> lo

[10:11] *** _isomorphismes joined
[10:11] <jmerelo> samcv: great!

[10:12] *** Cabanossi left
[10:12] <jmerelo> samcv: they are in the same repo. Mark Keating is kinda the Perl 5 head, but for the time being there's nothing in that area.

[10:12] <jmerelo> I'll post something to the Perl programmers Facebook group to whip up some support

[10:13] *** Cabanossi joined
[10:15] *** _isomorphismes left
[10:15] <jmerelo> Updated links from the front page: https://perl-gsoc-2019.github.io/ideas/

[10:18] *** ExtraCrispy left
[10:20] *** meuirkat joined
[10:20] <samcv> ok great

[10:22] *** pmurias joined
[10:22] <samcv> jmerelo, pm me your email you'd like me to send them to you. in addition i can mention irc as well probably?

[10:23] *** admin__ left
[10:23] <pmurias> jmerelo: I'm not sure the 50k$ is payed to the organisation (I think that ~5k is paid to students directly) 

[10:25] <jmerelo> pmurias: Probably. Maybe the thing was that a max of 10 students per organization, to the tune of 5k, were accepted.

[10:25] *** ravenousmoose joined
[10:25] <jmerelo> pmurias: I'll check anyway. 

[10:26] *** lizmat joined
[10:27] <jmerelo> pmurias: apparently yes, it's paid according to the number of mentors and students it gets: https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/help/org-payments

[10:28] <jmerelo> pmurias: the FAQ also states 500‚Ç¨ per student. So yes, maybe not 50k, but still good dinero.

[10:30] <pmurias> well the money handed to students also sort of counts as going into Perl 6 development

[10:30] <jmerelo> pmurias: that's right. It's win-win.

[10:31] *** pmurias left
[10:31] <jmerelo> samcv: it's jjmerelo at gmail. Also jjmerelo in Twitter, you can dm me. Or in Telegram. 

[10:31] *** pmurias joined
[10:31] <jmerelo> It's win-win if your organization is chosen.

[10:32] <pmurias> samcv: colaborating with Flavio (fglock) on the Perl6-to-Perl5 stuff was fun back in the day, he kid of drifted from the community radar as he is not on irc anymore

[10:34] <samcv> ++ for perl foundation getting more money

[10:38] *** w17t joined
[10:48] *** ravenousmoose left
[10:50] *** lizmat left
[10:52] *** ravenousmoose joined
[10:56] *** jmerelo left
[10:56] *** domidumont joined
[10:57] <samcv> pmurias, nice

[11:02] *** lizmat joined
[11:10] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[11:10] <pmurias> samcv: the ideas look good, you might want to use the idea template for them tho

[11:11] *** pmurias left
[11:24] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[11:25] *** quad_ joined
[11:25] <quad_> hi

[11:25] <moritz> ho

[11:25] <quad_> how can I see what moar does?

[11:25] <quad_> print the generated code

[11:25] <quad_> different stages of compilation

[11:25] <quad_> to follow it

[11:27] <quad_> well?

[11:27] <moritz> so, rakudo is the compiler, not MoarVM

[11:27] <moritz> moar doesn't have traditional compilation stages

[11:27] <moritz> it works on bytecode, and can do things like specializations, inlining and JIT on the fly, but not in stages

[11:28] <moritz> you can get a whole lot of debugging output out of MoarVM by doing a debug build, with Configure.pl --debug

[11:29] <moritz> quad_: does that answer your question?

[11:29] *** pmurias joined
[11:29] <quad_> yes

[11:29] <quad_> how can I print the byte code?

[11:30] <quad_> mbv

[11:30] <quad_> mbc

[11:30] <moritz> perl6 --target=mbc ... # iirc

[11:30] *** pmurias left
[11:30] <quad_> I cannot read it that

[11:31] <moritz> but you want the byte code, no? :D

[11:31] <quad_> In a viewable format

[11:31] <quad_> understandable

[11:32] <moritz> you can get an intermediate view with --target=mast

[11:32] <moritz> I don't know if there's a bytecode dumper for moar -- maybe the folks in #moarvm know more

[11:33] <quad_> I get an error I cannot stringify this

[11:35] <moritz> I cannot stringify this either :(

[11:36] <quad_> have you tried the command you recommended me?

[11:40] <moritz> yes, worked for me with -e 'say 1'

[11:41] *** ravenousmoose[aw is now known as ravenousmoose

[11:41] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[11:41] <quad_> I use perl6 --target=mast --output=test.txt  -e "say 1;"

[11:41] *** rindolf left
[11:41] <quad_> in Windows

[11:42] <moritz> have you tried without --output ?

[11:43] <quad_> yes, it works now

[11:45] *** aborazmeh joined
[11:45] *** aborazmeh left
[11:45] *** aborazmeh joined
[11:45] <quad_> can I see the code produced by moar?  jit?

[11:45] <timotimo> moar --dump can give you what's in a .moarvm file, but only the bytecode

[11:46] <timotimo> you'll need to use --target=mbc for that

[11:47] <timotimo> setting the env var MVM_SPESH_LOG to a filename will also give you bytecode from functions that are deemed hot enough for optimization

[11:47] <timotimo> that will give you functions in a SSA form, which is a bit nicer to read, too

[11:54] *** rindolf joined
[11:59] <quad_> Is perl6 fast now?

[12:10] <MasterDuke> quad_: here's a blog post discussing that very question https://rakudo.party/post/Perl-6-Is-Slower-Than-My-Fat-Momma. things have only gotten better since then

[12:10] *** dct joined
[12:11] *** aborazmeh left
[12:11] *** _isomorphismes joined
[12:15] *** lucasb joined
[12:16] *** _isomorphismes left
[12:17] <timotimo> reading jnthn's blog is always a good source for performance improvements

[12:18] *** pmurias joined
[12:19] <MasterDuke> and the weekly

[12:23] <timotimo> indeed

[12:24] <timotimo> i'm sure many modules still have a lot of untapped optimization potential, like we very recently saw with DBIish

[12:26] <MasterDuke> timotimo: you could have a whole timotimo-branded line of modules. JSON-Fast, DBIish-Fast, etc

[12:26] *** dct left
[12:30] *** Manifest0 left
[12:31] *** Manifest0 joined
[12:31] *** kent\n left
[12:40] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:40] *** aborazmeh left
[12:40] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:41] *** kent\n joined
[12:49] *** tomaw left
[12:56] <moritz> Timo::Fast :D

[13:02] *** ExtraCrispy left
[13:11] <timotimo> Timo::JSON, Timo::DBIish, Timo::CodeGenerators::...

[13:11] <Skarsnik> xD

[13:11] <Skarsnik> Timo::Core

[13:11] <MasterDuke> Timo::Timo

[13:17] *** markoong left
[13:17] <moritz> "Er hat 'nen Doppelnamen, er heisst Timo Timo" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9q54VeAvd0Y :D

[13:19] *** aborazmeh left
[13:20] *** quad_ left
[13:23] *** ravenousmoose joined
[13:28] *** ravenousmoose left
[13:28] *** ravenousmoose[aw is now known as ravenousmoose

[13:38] *** leont joined
[13:41] *** Manifest0 left
[13:42] *** Sgeo__ joined
[13:43] *** Manifest0 joined
[13:44] *** tomaw joined
[13:45] *** Sgeo_ left
[14:13] *** _isomorphismes joined
[14:14] *** zacts left
[14:15] *** araraloren joined
[14:16] *** yqt joined
[14:17] *** _isomorphismes left
[14:17] <araraloren> Hi

[14:19] *** sena_kun joined
[14:27] <araraloren> Can someone help me check is my code using lock/unlock of IO::Handle in right way ?

[14:27] <araraloren> https://gist.github.com/araraloren/cfb7d7b694be76e0bbe53491df573d3a#file-test-p6

[14:28] <araraloren> It's a simple plug-in framework

[14:28] <araraloren> Currently the test code sometimes hang on or segmentfault

[14:31] *** zacts joined
[14:38] <sena_kun> araraloren, $!lock.lock is likely to not be atomic.

[14:38] <sena_kun> I think you want make your class a monitor.

[14:39] <araraloren> oh, it's not thead safe ?

[14:39] <sena_kun> I am not an expert tho, but I'd opt to monitor usage in this case to avoid races by replacing a single keyword. :)

[14:39] <sena_kun> why should it be?

[14:40] <timotimo> i'm confused by your assessment

[14:40] <timotimo> but i'd recommend Lock::protect over Lock::lock and Lock::unlock

[14:41] <sena_kun> timotimo, filehandle lock is used instead of Lock.

[14:41] <sena_kun> that's why it might be confusing, I think.

[14:41] <sena_kun> and lock/unlock on a file doesn't do anything related to threads.

[14:41] <timotimo> oh

[14:41] <timotimo> that makes a big difference, yes

[14:42] <sena_kun> so either use a global Lock or a monitor.

[14:42] <araraloren> I thought it would like flock in C

[14:43] <araraloren> Anything can work in serval process ?

[14:43] <sena_kun> this is where I cannot help. :S

[14:43] <araraloren>   or thread

[14:43] <sena_kun> araraloren, "anything" is?

[14:44] <araraloren> such as the IO::Hanle.lock/unlock

[14:44] *** mowcat joined
[14:44] <sena_kun> hmm, I might be wrong.

[14:45] <sena_kun> >otherwise will block until the lock can be placed

[14:45] <sena_kun> from docs

[14:45] <araraloren> Oh, actually I want the module work in mulitple Process or Thread

[14:46] <araraloren> yeah, I think it would work here

[14:46] <araraloren> but it's not

[14:47] <sena_kun> then we want someone with more experience to explain why it doesn't. sorry.

[14:48] <araraloren> okay

[14:48] <araraloren> thanks

[14:49] *** araraloren left
[14:50] *** araraloren joined
[14:51] *** araraloren left
[14:51] *** araraloren_ joined
[14:52] *** pmurias left
[14:55] *** pmurias joined
[14:58] *** araraloren_ is now known as araraloren

[15:04] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[15:04] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[15:13] <sjn> jnthn++ # Happy birthday :)

[15:17] <timotimo> oh! happy birthday verily!

[15:20] *** wi15ht joined
[15:20] *** wi15ht left
[15:20] *** wi15ht joined
[15:21] <araraloren> Happy birthday! jnthn++

[15:22] *** w17t left
[15:25] *** lucasb left
[15:26] *** ravenousmoose[aw joined
[15:27] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[15:28] *** Cabanossi left
[15:30] *** ravenousmoose joined
[15:30] *** vrurg joined
[15:32] *** Sgeo_ joined
[15:35] *** Sgeo__ left
[15:55] *** Sgeo joined
[15:56] *** ravenousmoose left
[15:57] *** Sgeo_ left
[16:00] *** gfldex left
[16:01] <moritz> jnthn++ indeed :D

[16:05] <El_Che> the ++ is funny in this case :)

[16:09] <araraloren> haha

[16:12] <hahainternet> yeah surely it's ++jnthn, you don't turn 31 on your 32nd birthday: p

[16:13] <hahainternet> and also, happy birthday jnthn, if i can buy you a pint or something ‚ò∫

[16:30] *** pmurias left
[16:31] *** ravenousmoose joined
[16:31] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[16:32] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[16:32] *** Kaiepi left
[16:33] *** Kaiepi joined
[16:38] *** zacts left
[16:44] *** Cabanossi joined
[16:47] *** pmurias joined
[16:48] *** ravenousmoose[aw joined
[16:49] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[16:52] <Altreus> where do compiled modules get cached?

[16:57] *** molaf joined
[17:00] *** Manifest0 left
[17:00] <sena_kun> you mean installed by zef or local ones?

[17:00] *** Manifest0 joined
[17:00] <sena_kun> results of precompilation for local modules stored in `.precomp` directories.

[17:02] <Altreus> ok I deleted that, and ran it again, and now I don't have one

[17:02] <Altreus> which is why I asked :)

[17:02] <Altreus> uh unless there are many

[17:02] <Altreus> ah it's in lib

[17:03] <Altreus> I wonder why I had one at the top level

[17:05] <Altreus> didn't help anyway ;_;

[17:06] *** zacts joined
[17:11] *** pmurias left
[17:15] <Altreus> help :D https://gist.github.com/Altreus/144c114d3e1a810f9da0aa4456562762

[17:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: zoffixznet++ created pull request #426: Move Zoffix Modules to Community

[17:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/pull/426

[17:19] <sena_kun> m: my @role-ids = 537710338498363393; say [537710338498363393] ~~ @role-ids;

[17:19] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[17:19] <sena_kun> Altreus, ^

[17:19] <Altreus> but the string version :x

[17:20] <sena_kun> m: say [537710338498363393] ~~ "537710338498363393";

[17:20] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[17:20] <Altreus> also, is this not a commutative operator? I thought it was

[17:21] <sena_kun> m: say [13] ~~ "13";

[17:21] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[17:21] <Altreus> m: say "13" ~~ [13];

[17:21] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª

[17:21] <Altreus> why

[17:21] <Altreus> D:

[17:21] <sena_kun> it doesn't look like a bug to me, I mean, too obvious. but I am not sure what's the semantics here and where to look it up.

[17:21] <sena_kun> Altreus, ~~ is not commutative.

[17:21] *** Voldenet left
[17:21] <Altreus> well

[17:21] <Altreus> m: say [13] ~~ 13;

[17:21] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª

[17:21] <sena_kun> m: say 'a' ~~ /a/

[17:21] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´ÔΩ¢aÔΩ£‚ê§¬ª

[17:22] <sena_kun> say  /a/ ~~ 'a'

[17:22] <evalable6> sena_kun, rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´Regex object coerced to string (please use .gist or .perl to do that)‚ê§False‚ê§  in block <unit> at /tmp/1uW8zDpEae line 1‚ê§¬ª

[17:22] <sena_kun> m: say /a/ ~~ 'a';

[17:22] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´Regex object coerced to string (please use .gist or .perl to do that)‚ê§False‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§¬ª

[17:22] <Altreus> oh that makes sense

[17:22] <sena_kun> ~~ is a hidden call to ACCEPTS method of left side iirc.

[17:22] <Altreus> Seems wrong to differentiate int and string like this - especially since the wrong one works!

[17:23] <sena_kun> m: "13".ACCEPTS([13]).say

[17:23] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[17:23] *** satori__ joined
[17:23] <sena_kun> docs are incomplete...

[17:23] <sena_kun> I think, it's that Array is being stringified and then being compared with.

[17:24] <sena_kun> m: [13].Str.say;

[17:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´13‚ê§¬ª

[17:24] <sena_kun> and then `13` Str is surely accepted by `13` Str.

[17:24] <sena_kun> I hope this makes sense. :)

[17:25] *** Cabanossi left
[17:25] *** reach_satori_ left
[17:27] *** Voldenet joined
[17:27] *** Voldenet left
[17:27] *** Voldenet joined
[17:27] *** pmurias joined
[17:28] *** ravenousmoose[aw joined
[17:28] <sena_kun> it is a bit of "trap" piece of language, cause number of methods stringify an array and may not do what user thinks.

[17:28] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[17:28] <sena_kun> like:

[17:29] <sena_kun> m: ['ab', 'cd'].index('ab').say;

[17:29] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´0‚ê§¬ª

[17:29] <sena_kun> but:

[17:30] <sena_kun> m:  ['ab', 'cd'].index('cd').say

[17:30] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´3‚ê§¬ª

[17:31] *** pmurias left
[17:40] *** araraloren left
[17:42] *** pmurias joined
[17:42] *** pmurias left
[17:42] *** Manifest0 left
[17:42] *** Manifest0 joined
[17:47] *** pmurias joined
[17:48] *** sena_kun left
[17:51] *** sena_kun joined
[17:59] *** zakharyas joined
[18:00] <moritz> m: say ['ab', 'cd'].Str

[18:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´ab cd‚ê§¬ª

[18:00] <moritz> m: say ['ab', 'cd'].Str.index('cd')

[18:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar 71a19c61a: OUTPUT: ¬´3‚ê§¬ª

[18:02] *** leont left
[18:14] *** Khisanth left
[18:21] *** ravenousmoose joined
[18:24] *** ravenousmoose left
[18:27] *** ravenousmoose joined
[18:28] *** Khisanth joined
[18:31] *** jmerelo joined
[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: d7bae39aab | (Zoffix Znet)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: Move Zoffix Modules to Community

[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/d7bae39aab

[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: f6105ad74d | (Juan Juli√°n Merelo Guerv√≥s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: Merge pull request #426 from zoffixznet/patch-2

[18:33] *** quad_ joined
[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: 

[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: Move Zoffix Modules to Community

[18:33] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/f6105ad74d

[18:34] <quad_> hello

[18:34] <quad_> is anybody using Perl6 in the commercial world?

[18:35] * sjn knows of a company that uses Perl 6 to write some of it's backend tooling

[18:36] <sjn> quad_: are you thinking of something specific?

[18:37] <timotimo> edument is using perl6 for something related to agriculture, there were one or two talks about it at a recent-ish perl conference/workshop

[18:38] <timotimo> nine's team has been using perl6 at their workplace for a while and if i remember correctly they've been transitioning more and more tools/daemons/scripts to perl6

[18:42] *** leont joined
[18:46] <quad_> there is too much competition

[18:47] <quad_> a lot of languages

[18:47] <El_Che> The time of dominant languages is gone

[18:47] <quad_> Java?

[18:48] <El_Che> is popular, but far from dominant

[18:48] <quad_> Javascirpt

[18:49] <El_Che> maybe on on the frontend, but not on the backend

[18:49] <quad_> where do you get you information from?

[18:49] <sjn> quad_: What are you specifically competing on? Adoption? Fitfulness for a specific purpose? Execution speed? Development speed? Code->run->error->code feedback loop tightness? Hype?

[18:49] <El_Che> most languages in the backend are interchangeable, certainly in a time of microservices and containers

[18:50] <quad_> Execution speed. Development speed. Code->run->error->code feedback loop tightness.

[18:50] <El_Che> quad_: own experience, colleagues, people I know, ecosystems, conferences, the yearly polls and garner-line (grain of salt) market research

[18:51] <sjn> quad_: tell us what you think is important, and we'll give you our honest answer on how we think Perl 6 measures up there :)

[18:51] <El_Che> Depends which one you want, e.g. python has a tighter dev loop, but go is *way* faster

[18:51] <El_Che> so, it's all very relative

[18:51] <timotimo> go is only *way* faster if you're using CPython, fwiw :)

[18:52] <El_Che> timotimo: there is a reasons the alternatives in the python families haven't broken trough in the Python world

[18:52] <El_Che> s/is a/are/

[18:53] <sjn> quad_: Perl 6 isn't really good on the execution speed part, but if you have a fast C library, the foreign function interface is quite good so you can still make use of a fast library from Perl 6

[18:53] <El_Che> pretty much like python and ruby people have to use when they need speed

[18:55] <sjn> quad_: As for development speed, Perl 6 is doing pretty good, IMO. Upside it's a *very* high level language with fantastic error messages and quite decent tracing tools, but the learning curve is quite steep as the language is very large (although this is partially remedied by good reuse of some programming patterns)

[18:56] *** zacts left
[18:57] <quad_> yes

[18:57] <sjn> quad_: the code-run-error-code feedback loop is pretty decent, but kinda dependant on the environment you're running in. others here may be better than me to give details, but I've seen very fast development from basic proof-of-concept to well structured OO+Roles in very short time

[18:58] <sjn> Perl 6 has some really neat features when it comes to growing a project over time

[19:00] <quad_> I also like to be able to producr executables

[19:00] <quad_> and good development environemtn

[19:00] <sjn> personally, I'd give the speed of Perl 6 (at the moment) maybe 4/10. There's still lots that can be improved, and fortunately a bunch of people are actively working on this as we speak

[19:00] <quad_> good debugging facilities

[19:00] <quad_> biggest competitor is Perl 5 for me

[19:02] <sjn> quad_: starting a Perl 6 project in 2019 is a pretty safe thing, I think, especially if execution speed isn't very important. Over time, expect that your code will go faster just because of improvements in the VM

[19:02] <sjn> quad_: if you need to produce executables, Perl 6 (or Perl 5, really) isn't your thing. 

[19:03] <quad_> yes

[19:03] <sjn> in fact, a VM with a well-tuned JIT outperforms compiled code these days (although Perl6 isn't there yet, other languages with more mature VM's are)

[19:03] <sjn> we'll get there eventually :)

[19:04] <timotimo> yeah, i think that's been the case for a couple of years now

[19:04] <timotimo> maybe even ten?

[19:04] <quad_> what language has the best jit nowadays?

[19:05] <sjn> as for development environment, you may want to take a look at Comma, a Perl 6 IDE that Edument are making. That one has refactoring support even, but while still being in beta, I hear good things of it (haven't tried it myself though)

[19:06] <sjn> quad_: Java's JRE is veery mature, and with some careful crafting can produce lightningly fast code

[19:07] <quad_> then,,,,oerl6 having java output was good

[19:07] <timotimo> i'm not sure if luajit is ahead of or behind java right now, but i seem to recall it was incredibly fast as well

[19:08] <timotimo> and then there's the javascript VM that more and more work is being poured into every day

[19:08] <quad_> sjn: what crafting?

[19:08] <timotimo> but since people are still super excited about wasm and such, it's probably not at the same level as java JRE

[19:08] <sjn> quad_: careful use of typing, for example

[19:08] <quad_> what happened to Perl 6 java backend?

[19:09] *** sena_kun left
[19:09] <timotimo> lack of volunteers to keep it fresh

[19:09] <moritz> bitrot

[19:11] <sjn> quad_: a problem with the "execution speed" thing is that if you want things to go really fast you have to "go native" and depend on some pretty crazy CPU and caching features

[19:12] <sjn> if your problem domain doesn't mind this, then go ahead :)

[19:14] <sjn> it helps to be honest about how important execution speed actually is. if you're doing large-scale simulations, you may want to pick another language/toolchain

[19:14] <sjn> if you're making public-facing network services that can't be cached, then pick something else than Perl 6

[19:15] <quad_> simulation it is

[19:17] <sjn> For CPU-heavy (or CUDA/etc hardware) simulations, I would probably pick another language at the moment

[19:18] <sjn> Haven't heard of anyone working on making those things faster, though I can't claim to know everything that's going on here :)

[19:19] <sjn> quad_: if speed is important, there's another Perl 6 option though :)

[19:20] *** KDr2 left
[19:20] <sjn> quad_: Implement what you need in Perl 6, make sure to report your findings here, and help make Perl 6 faster :-D

[19:20] *** reach_satori_ joined
[19:21] <timotimo> yeah, it's not totally uncommon that specific speed deficiencies get patched up in half a day

[19:21] <sjn> it's all volunteer work (like most Open Source projects), so taking charge of improving a featureset is something lots of people will appreciate :)

[19:21] <timotimo> well, it's like 80% volunteer work

[19:22] <quad_> yes, I know

[19:22] <sjn> so in some ways, asking "what is popular" or "best" isn't the best question to ask in #perl6 ‚Äì it's better to ask "what features/qualities do I need, and how can I help improve these"

[19:23] *** satori__ left
[19:23] <sjn> there's still enough to improve that this way of thinking can give lots of benefits

[19:24] *** Manifest0 left
[19:24] *** Manifest0 joined
[19:24] <sjn> but it assumes that the other things (dev speed, feedback/debug/dev loop, language features) are good enough for your needs

[19:25] *** kensanata joined
[19:25] <sjn> (personally, I think Perl 6 is doing quite well in these regards)

[19:25] *** zakharyas left
[19:26] <sjn> quad_: ...but this decision is very much depending on you, and your $company's needs

[19:26] *** ravenousmoose left
[19:28] <sjn> quad_: does this help you in any way?

[19:29] <quad_> it could

[19:29] <quad_> just exploring

[19:29] <sjn> well, feel free to ask away if you have more specific questions

[19:30] <sjn> we're glad to share opinions, but if you want to make a more informed decision it helps to be specific :)

[19:33] *** ravenousmoose joined
[19:44] <quad_> other question

[19:45] <quad_> is the bytecode of moar is just mast encoded?

[19:47] *** domidumont left
[19:48] *** pmurias left
[19:59] *** pmurias joined
[20:02] <sjn> quad_: not sure what you mean about "mast encoded"?

[20:03] *** sena_kun joined
[20:03] <sjn> are you talking about Moar's abstrat syntax tree, or about an encoding? (I'm not enough into the guts of MoarVM, but I'm pretty sure "encoding" isn't the right word to use here. I might be wrong though)

[20:05] *** Sgeo_ joined
[20:07] <meuirkat> any good reads on nativecall?

[20:08] *** Sgeo left
[20:10] *** pmurias left
[20:10] <moritz> https://docs.perl6.org/language/nativecall

[20:11] <moritz> maybe not a Grisham level read

[20:11] *** Sgeo_ left
[20:12] *** Sgeo joined
[20:16] <meuirkat> conan doyle?

[20:17] *** jmerelo left
[20:17] *** patrickb joined
[20:17] <Skarsnik> modules, App::GPTrixie

[20:18] <Skarsnik> or whatever bot is that xD

[20:19] *** zachk joined
[20:19] *** patrickb left
[20:20] *** yqt left
[20:20] <timotimo> i'm slightly surprised we even still have the mast output stage, i thought we trnaslate QAST directly to mbc now

[20:24] *** zacts joined
[20:25] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Getopt-Long (0.0.3) by 03LEONT

[20:25] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Path-Finder (0.1.0) by 03LEONT

[20:26] *** pmurias joined
[20:27] *** ravenousmoose left
[20:28] *** pmurias left
[20:31] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: b99405587c | (Leon Timmermans)++ | META.list

[20:31] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: Moved several leont modules to CPAN

[20:31] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/b99405587c

[20:33] *** pmurias joined
[20:36] <moritz> leont++

[20:37] *** pmurias left
[20:40] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! App-Prove6 (0.0.8) by 03LEONT

[20:40] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! TAP (0.0.8) by 03LEONT

[20:41] *** pmurias joined
[20:49] *** pmurias left
[20:49] *** kensanata left
[21:06] *** AlexDaniel left
[21:08] *** kensanata joined
[21:08] *** kensanata left
[21:17] *** ravenousmoose joined
[21:18] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:22] *** dustinm` joined
[21:28] *** zacts left
[21:29] *** Xliff joined
[21:52] <leont> Who does the next rakudo star?

[21:53] <El_Che> https://github.com/rakudo/star/issues/124

[21:55] *** zacts joined
[21:58] *** ravenousmoose left
[21:58] <leont> Thanks

[22:02] <leont> Though it

[22:02] <leont> 's still unclear who of the two will do it :-p

[22:02] <El_Che> it looks like a commitee

[22:03] <El_Che> maybe it's a good thing, bus factor and so on

[22:04] <leont> .tell clarkema I split up App::Prove6 from TAP::Harness, so the former should also be added to Rakudo Star

[22:04] <yoleaux> leont: I'll pass your message to clarkema.

[22:04] <leont> .tell hankache I split up App::Prove6 from TAP::Harness, so the former should also be added to Rakudo Star

[22:04] <yoleaux> leont: I'll pass your message to hankache.

[22:12] *** kurahaupo left
[22:12] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[22:12] *** kurahaupo_ left
[22:13] *** kurahaupo joined
[22:16] *** lizmat left
[22:25] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:00] *** SyrupThinker joined
[23:00] *** lizmat joined
[23:03] <TreyHarris> What's my best bet for a library if I just want to get latitude and longitude of major cities for doing astronomical calculations? The ones in ecosystem appear to all be either deprecated or for for-pay services without a (non-trial) free tier. (There's a weather module that can return coordinates for cities, but it's quite old and this seems like a silly way to go about it.) I'm fine using an Inline or a

[23:03] <TreyHarris> simple JSON API if that's the best way to go about it

[23:04] <TreyHarris> I don't need anything fancy in terms of the Perl 5 Geo::Coder::... modules' capabilities

[23:04] <timotimo> have you considered openstreetmap?

[23:04] *** lizmat left
[23:05] <TreyHarris> timotimo: I was considering using either it or Geo::Coder::Free using inline perl5,  but I've never had this need before so I don't know how to assess one over another

[23:05] <timotimo> i haven't needed something like this before either

[23:05] <TreyHarris> I'll give openstreetmap a try

[23:05] <hahainternet> i've used geonames for this, just a downloadable database

[23:06] <hahainternet> not sure how their webservice fares

[23:06] <TreyHarris> hahainternet: ah? let me take a look.

[23:07] <TreyHarris> OpenCage has a free tier and there's a native Perl6 library, but it doesn't work

[23:08] <hahainternet> TreyHarris: yeah, although i don't know of any useful modules to help i'm afraid

[23:08] <TreyHarris> (Seems like an issue for a lot of these in Perl 5, too: the module doesn't work with the current API.)

[23:09] <hahainternet> (always add a version path or use http facilities to version your APIs :p)

[23:09] <TreyHarris> hahainternet: do you have a link? I'm clicking around but not finding the downloadable database

[23:10] <TreyHarris> Oh, nm, I'm blind. http://download.geonames.org/export/dump/

[23:11] <hahainternet> there are some collections too with different levels of detail

[23:11] <hahainternet> if you want the top 50,000 cities for example

[23:12] <hahainternet> ah, lower on that same page in fact :)

[23:20] *** satori__ joined
[23:22] *** satori__ is now known as reach-satori

[23:22] *** reach_satori_ left
[23:32] *** rindolf left
[23:38] *** zacts left
[23:45] *** pecastro left
[23:51] *** Kaiepi left
[23:52] *** Kaiepi joined
[23:53] *** aborazmeh joined
[23:53] *** aborazmeh left
[23:53] *** aborazmeh joined
[23:57] *** dct joined
