[00:07] *** w_richard_w joined
[00:16] <tyil> El_Che: yellow? there's no yellow in there I think

[00:17] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:17] <tyil> El_Che: it has blue for the URL, green for the PAUSE ID

[00:17] *** cpan-p6 joined
[00:17] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[00:17] <tyil> El_Che: I'm going to rewrite parts anyway, I can remove coloring altogether if people think its more annoying than helpful

[00:18] <tyil> I want it to not have a memory leak above all, though, so it doesnt restart so often

[00:18] <tyil> I kinda dislike the spam it generates by joining so often, but I also want to inform its a bot on joining and show the source in case anyone has improvements

[00:18] <El_Che> tyil: yes, it's green, but a very light one. It looks like a highlight when you don't look attentively

[00:18] <El_Che> not that annoying, and maybe it's just me

[00:19] <tyil> my highlights are red, so I don't notice that :p

[00:19] <timotimo> saying it when it joins isn't bad, but i seem to recall other bots answer to "myname: source"

[00:19] <tyil> it responds to .bots to show the source too

[00:19] <tyil> maybe that alone is enough

[00:19] <timotimo> is that meant for all bots to identify themselves?

[00:20] <tyil> that's a common standard among bots from what I've seen in my years on irc

[00:20] <timotimo> interesting, i'm not sure i've seen that

[00:20] <tyil> it usually reports the bot as "reporting in" or for duty, the lang it's made in (or the lib) and an url to the source

[00:21] <tyil> or an informational page, if its not free software

[00:21] <El_Che> tyil: http://claudio.ulyssis.be/var/tmp/tyil.png

[00:21] <tyil> ah, the green on its own nick (same green as the PAUSE ID)

[00:22] <tyil> coloring in irc messages is hard, since nobody is guaranteed to use the same colors

[00:22] <El_Che> the tyil yellow is the highlight

[00:22] <tyil> might be best to just not add coloring at all I think

[00:22] <timotimo> i sometimes appreciate a little bit of boldface

[00:23] <El_Che> I think that omitting colours is a good idea as a bot should be subtle

[00:23] <tyil> this is how it looks for me https://a.uguu.se/45xIzxng0GQL_window-20190129012213.png

[00:23] <tyil> timotimo: bolding/underscoring is usually not interfered with in user settings, so those should be fine

[00:25] <tyil> thanks for the feedback El_Che and timotimo, I'll take it with me when working on the bot again

[00:25] <tyil> though I can't say for sure when that'll be, I'm moving to Amsterdam, but on the way to FOSDEM I might have time (which would be Friday)

[00:26] <El_Che> tyil: moving from where?

[00:26] <El_Che> (and when I hear Amsterdam I hear Booking)

[00:26] <tyil> samcv's working at booking, which is part of the reason we're moving there

[00:27] <tyil> I come from Gorinchem, another city in the Netherlands

[00:27] <guifa> SmokeMachine: the trick I think for me making the ~==  is just trying to cover as many possibilities as I can.  Right now the conversion tends to work by piggy-backing signature coercion, which is definitely better than nothing.  Eventually though I figure I'll start to put in edge cases wherever I come across them

[00:27] <El_Che> tyil: ah, you're an item?

[00:27] <tyil> I'm working at another company in Amsterdam, where I'm slowly introducing more Perl 6 tools :D

[00:27] <tyil> it appears so, yes :)

[00:27] <timotimo> i guess true change has to come from within :P

[00:28] <El_Che> tyil: we'll meet IRL if you're moving so close. I am from .be

[00:28] <tyil> oh, cool

[00:28] <tyil> we can certainly do that :D

[00:28] <tyil> are you going to FOSDEM?

[00:28] *** Kaiepi joined
[00:29] *** w_richard_w left
[00:29] <El_Che> No, I have a conflicting dates with a conference I am organizing. I go every year (I manage the Perl devroom), but since we didn't get a devroom this year, I feel less guilty of skipping it

[00:30] <tyil> makes sense

[00:30] <tyil> I'm having an asian friend over the week after fosdem, and he'll be staying with me for a week

[00:30] <tyil> I'll be off of work all week as well

[00:30] <tyil> so if that suits you, let me know

[00:30] <tyil> if you have Signal, I can pm you my number

[00:31] <El_Che> I'll be in France all week

[00:31] <tyil> bummer

[00:31] <tyil> we'll have to find a later point in time then

[00:31] <El_Che> I see/devine some p6 events in the future :)

[00:32] <tyil> those are always good

[00:32] <tyil> I have to go sleep though, it's way past bedtime ;~;

[00:32] <tyil> I'll talk to you later :)

[00:35] <El_Che> yeah, I took some time off from work and my hours went crazy

[00:35] *** rindolf left
[00:59] *** zachk left
[01:03] *** w_richard_w joined
[01:04] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:04] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:04] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[01:04] *** mowcat left
[01:14] *** dct left
[01:14] *** w_richard_w1 joined
[01:15] *** Kaiepi left
[01:16] *** w_richard_w left
[01:17] *** jeek joined
[01:17] *** Kaiepi joined
[01:18] *** w_richard_w1 left
[01:35] *** sena_kun left
[01:47] *** aborazmeh left
[01:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:49] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:49] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[02:17] *** molaf left
[02:28] *** jme` joined
[02:29] <tbrowder> .tell lucs i think your solution looks good. my original attempt i think mixed up compile time snd runtime things that are incompatible. i need to look closer at what you did successfully and try to understand the differences. thanks again for the help!

[02:29] <yoleaux> tbrowder: I'll pass your message to lucs.

[02:30] *** molaf joined
[02:33] <lucs> .

[02:33] <yoleaux> 02:29Z <tbrowder> lucs: i think your solution looks good. my original attempt i think mixed up compile time snd runtime things that are incompatible. i need to look closer at what you did successfully and try to understand the differences. thanks again for the help!

[02:33] <lucs> tbrowder: My pleasure. It helped me practice using 'require' a bit too :)

[02:34] <tbrowder> actually, i didn‚Äôt even use require!

[02:34] <lucs> Oh, how did you do it?

[02:34] *** cpan-p6 left
[02:35] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:35] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[02:35] <lucs> Or do you mean you didn't use require in your earlier attempts?

[02:40] <tbrowder> i may have misstated, but i need to look closer at what really happened and ensure the result is correct. i will report back eventually because i think it is a very useful construct, at least it is for me. it can be embellished with shasums to determine if the module needs transforming again, etc.

[02:40] <lucs> tbrowder: Hehe, see, that's what laziness gets you :)

[02:40] <tbrowder> amen, brudda!

[02:41] <tbrowder> i sure use a lot of energy being lazy%!

[02:41] <tbrowder> *!

[02:41] <lucs> Same here, and with Perl6, loving it!

[02:43] <tbrowder> p6 is wonderful, too big to get it all in my mind, but lots of stuff to play with, someting for every need

[02:50] *** Khisanth left
[02:59] *** MasterDuke left
[03:02] *** markoong left
[03:03] *** leont left
[03:04] *** Khisanth joined
[03:07] *** isomorphismes joined
[03:13] *** tyil left
[03:23] *** tyil joined
[03:26] *** cpan-p6 left
[03:26] *** cpan-p6 joined
[03:26] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[03:31] <guifa> I'm writing a tutorial and I think I'm being way too verbose lol.  I think I need someone to pod golf it for me 

[03:45] *** ufobat_ joined
[03:49] *** ufobat left
[03:50] *** APic left
[03:55] *** ferreira left
[03:57] *** APic joined
[04:08] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:08] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:08] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[04:16] *** kurahaupo left
[04:55] *** ferreira joined
[05:18] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Net-BGP (0.1.0) by 03JMASLAK

[05:30] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:30] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[05:51] *** curan joined
[05:54] *** molaf left
[06:10] *** robertle left
[06:18] *** aborazmeh joined
[06:18] *** aborazmeh left
[06:18] *** aborazmeh joined
[06:34] *** cgfbee left
[06:38] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:38] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:38] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[06:43] *** aborazmeh left
[06:49] *** guifa left
[06:56] *** random_yanek left
[07:03] <tyil> .tell guifa if you want someone to proofread it with knowledge of pod, let me know :)

[07:03] <yoleaux> tyil: I'll pass your message to guifa.

[07:04] *** domidumont joined
[07:08] *** random_yanek joined
[07:15] *** ravenousmoose_ joined
[07:33] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:34] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:34] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[07:53] *** sauvin joined
[08:05] *** w17t joined
[08:18] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:19] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:19] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[08:20] <tyil> hot damn you're restarting a lot today >:(

[08:24] *** Actualeyes left
[08:32] *** dakkar joined
[08:41] *** isomorphismes left
[08:45] *** ravenousmoose joined
[08:46] *** ravenousmoose_ left
[08:50] *** rindolf joined
[08:51] *** reach_satori left
[08:58] *** scimon joined
[08:59] *** k-man left
[09:00] *** kensanata joined
[09:02] *** patrickb joined
[09:04] * lizmat clickbaits https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2019/01/28/2019-04-summer-of-code/

[09:07] *** k-man joined
[09:07] <scimon> As always. It's very informative :)

[09:17] *** yqt joined
[09:26] <tyil> does anyone have an objection if I make use of some #perl6- channelnames on Freenode to set up a bridge between irc and discord? (related to https://www.reddit.com/r/perl6/comments/ak652q/a_discord_community_for_raku/)

[09:28] <tyil> I could also bridge this very channel into that discord community, if channelops would like that more

[09:33] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:33] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:33] <cpan-p6> 03cpan-p6 reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadnotifierbot

[09:42] *** cpan-p6_ joined
[09:42] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:57] <scimon> tyil: I joined the Discord last night as I'm down with the kids ;)

[09:58] <tyil> I'm not :(

[09:59] <tyil> but I don't think it's wise to shun possible community members because I don't like their chatting platform, especially when it's this easy to set up a bridge between Ye Olde Folks and the young 'uns

[10:01] *** gregf_ joined
[10:04] <jast> I'm not sure that's compatible with my beloved IRC elitism ;)

[10:05] <Xliff> jast++ # Me neither! (Xlff says as he kicks his Discord icon under the welcom mat)

[10:06] <Xliff> m: 1 ~~ (1, 2, 3)

[10:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar 3d581c8d2: ( no output )

[10:06] <Xliff> m: 1 ~~ (1, 2, 3).say

[10:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar 3d581c8d2: OUTPUT: ¬´(1 2 3)‚ê§¬ª

[10:06] <Xliff> m: say 1 ~~ (1, 2, 3)

[10:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar 3d581c8d2: OUTPUT: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª

[10:06] <Xliff> m: say 1 ~~ (1)

[10:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar 3d581c8d2: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[10:21] *** robertle joined
[10:23] <tyil> jast: I'm continuing use of IRC, but part of the IRC elitism is knowing IRC is small and easily integrated, and you can prove that by bridging irc into pretty much anything

[10:23] <jast> stop ruining my lame joke by being all reasonable ;P

[10:23] <tyil> the thing Matrix, Discord, XMPP and all other things have in common is having IRC bridges :p

[10:24] <timotimo> i suggest we get our communities on zero-k chat. it has a discord bridge, which includes the ability to bridge to IRC, but it also has a cool 3d real-time strategy game attached to it :P

[10:24] <tyil> lol

[10:25] <timotimo> (obviously that's not a sensible suggestion, but zero-k is pretty cool, go try it out if you're interested in RTS at all)

[10:26] <jast> I'm the worst at RTS

[10:26] <tyil> oh, it's free as in freedom

[10:26] <timotimo> it is!

[10:26] <tyil> that's pretty cool, timotimo 

[10:26] <timotimo> i'm bad at it, also i can't play a lot for practice because RSI tends to happen from that

[10:26] <tyil> I'm bad at RTSes too, which is why I only play casually with friends if I play games at all :p

[10:27] <tyil> then we can at least all be bad, so it's not an issue

[10:27] <timotimo> but it does have a single-player campaign that's pretty varied, and bots that only use the information they're getting in their vision range, but will still play well

[10:28] <timotimo> OK, enough ZK for now, it's pretty off-topic for this channel :)

[10:33] *** reach_satori joined
[10:38] *** reach_satori left
[10:38] *** reach_satori joined
[10:44] *** zakharyas joined
[10:45] <Xliff> I will have to try it so I can thrash "timo"x2

[10:50] *** Xliff left
[11:03] *** leont joined
[11:04] *** domidumont left
[11:17] *** leont left
[11:34] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 989b1ddc0a | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[11:34] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[11:34] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Adds reference to meta-operators at the top, closes #2597

[11:34] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/989b1ddc0a

[12:16] *** markoong joined
[12:22] *** sena_kun joined
[12:34] *** ravenousmoose left
[12:43] *** Woodi joined
[12:56] *** skids left
[12:59] *** domidumont joined
[13:12] *** lucasb joined
[13:12] *** pmurias joined
[13:13] <pmurias> timotimo: zero k is open source so it should be possible to embed moarvm in it

[13:14] <lizmat> FOSDEM information for this weekend: https://wendyga.wordpress.com/2019/01/29/meet-perl-at-fosdem-2019-in-brussels-belgium-booth-saturday-dinner/

[13:17] *** pmurias left
[13:18] <ufobat_> isnt it possible to check, once in a week whether there is an update on a module that is not hosted on github?

[13:18] <ufobat_> asking for the p6weekly, lizmat 

[13:18] <sena_kun> lizmat, o/ I am not sure if this is a mistake, but in latest weekly in tweet section there is a link missing, just `by Â•àËâØÈò™„Åæ„Åû„Åè@VRChat Profile.` is shown.

[13:19] <lizmat> sena_kun: probably a mistake, lemme check

[13:19] <ufobat_> all the community "managed" modules are not on cpan.

[13:19] <lizmat> ufobat_: if you have a simple way for me to do that for a certain period, then I will do that

[13:19] <tyil> ufobat_: they appear in the ecosystem repo, right?

[13:20] <ufobat_> tyil, right

[13:20] <lizmat> until I know of such a way, I'm afraid I'm going to be lazy :-)

[13:20] <ufobat_> lizmat, zef does the job already, no?

[13:20] <tyil> I'm probably able to make a simple importer of all those jsons in there

[13:20] <ufobat_> lizmat, btw there is a bug in the current weekly, it is not "Martin Timmerman" but "Marcel Timmerman"

[13:20] <lizmat> zef does that how ?

[13:21] <ufobat_> if it doesn't then i am mistaken, i thought zef was aware of versions of modules on Github

[13:21] <tyil> it's relatively easy to make something for it in the cpan db I'm already keeping

[13:21] <tyil> but I have cpan-p6 to fix before I take on a new task :p

[13:22] <ufobat_> but in general, isnt it just foreach @ecosystem -> $module { $module.fetch_tags.compare-with-what-i-remember() }

[13:22] <lizmat> ufobat_: I'm open to improvements... :-)

[13:22] <lizmat> as long as it doesn't add to my workload  :-)

[13:22] <tyil> I keep insertion dates in my db

[13:23] <tyil> so if I have code to import the modules from github, one can just run it at given intervals and SELECT everything from the last 7 days

[13:23] <tyil> DISTINCT on module name

[13:23] <tyil> and you should be done

[13:23] <ufobat_> tyil, i think this information needs to be polled?

[13:24] <tyil> unless we can get all modules on github to fire a webhook on new releases we'll have to poll them

[13:24] <ufobat_> lizmat, did you notice the bug, on updated perl modules?

[13:24] <ufobat_> but polling them woudn't be a big problem

[13:25] <lizmat> ufobat_: what bug ?

[13:25] <tyil> all you need to do is download the latest META6.json

[13:25] <ufobat_> it is not "Martin timmerman" it is "Marcel Timmerman"

[13:25] <ufobat_> wrong name

[13:25] <tyil> I don't know how many requests github allows, though

[13:25] <lizmat> yeah fixed that, and sena_kun's issue

[13:25] <ufobat_> k :)

[13:25] <sena_kun> lizmat++

[13:25] <tyil> I poll cpan every couple minutes

[13:26] <tyil> if I were to do the same on github, they may become reluctant to serve the documents

[13:26] <El_Che> lo

[13:26] *** TeamBlast left
[13:26] <tyil> o/ El_Che 

[13:27] *** cgfbee joined
[13:27] *** ravenousmoose joined
[13:28] <tyil> ufobat_: if youre interested to write code to poll github repos and fetch their META6.jsons, the code I use to keep all cpan modules' metadata close to me is here: https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan

[13:28] <ufobat_> what if we just poll one every (6hours / @ecosystem.grep(*.on-github).elems) 

[13:29] <ufobat_> tyil, putted on my todo list :)

[13:29] <tyil> ^_^

[13:29] <ufobat_> i need to watch star trek discovery first

[13:29] <tyil> no spoilers pls

[13:29] <tyil> I've only seen epi 1 of this season

[13:30] <tyil> I'll continue once my desktop is in the downloading business again

[13:30] <ufobat_> i am still on season 1

[13:30] <El_Che> Leia and Luke are brother and Sister

[13:30] <tyil> El_Che: noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!

[13:30] <tyil> or maybe, that makes it even hotter

[13:30] <ufobat_> tadzik++ could you pls check my PR on shell::command

[13:31] <El_Che> tyil: Luke didn't agree. He even chopped his hand off

[13:31] <tyil> he probably just heard about that guy from way back that removed his own ear

[13:31] <tyil> and wanted to 1-up him

[13:33] *** cgfbee left
[13:34] *** domidumont1 joined
[13:35] *** ravenousmoose left
[13:38] *** domidumont left
[13:40] *** mikejw joined
[13:47] *** ravenousmoose joined
[13:49] *** xinming joined
[13:51] <tadzik> ufobat_: no tests? ;

[13:51] <tadzik> ;)

[13:54] <tyil> tests are for peopel that dont trust their own code

[13:54] <tyil> the first step in writing good code is trusting that your code is flawless

[13:56] <tadzik> that's not my code though, that's ufobat_'s ;P

[13:59] <ufobat_> i cant imagine a test that invokes run without running random binaries?

[14:05] <tadzik> hmm

[14:05] <tadzik> we could try bin/true on unix, and maybe some echo or whatever on windows?

[14:06] <tadzik> eh, but how do you check the results

[14:06] <tadzik> we can leave it at that until we get a good idea

[14:07] <tadzik> merged, thanks :)

[14:07] <ufobat_> thanks :-)

[14:12] <El_Che> 14:54 < tyil> tests are for peopel

[14:12] <El_Che> :)

[14:12] *** guifa joined
[14:13] *** w17t left
[14:17] *** araraloren joined
[14:20] *** skids joined
[14:41] *** araraloren left
[14:41] *** araraloren joined
[14:55] *** ravenousmoose_ joined
[14:57] *** ravenousmoose left
[14:59] *** zakharyas left
[15:01] *** zakharyas joined
[15:01] *** zakharyas left
[15:06] <guifa> p6: my $a = 0 but "Foo"; say $a; my @b = [1,2,3] but "Bar"; say @b.Str

[15:06] <yoleaux> 07:03Z <tyil> guifa: if you want someone to proofread it with knowledge of pod, let me know :)

[15:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar 3d581c8d2: OUTPUT: ¬´Foo‚ê§1 2 3‚ê§¬ª

[15:07] <guifa> Shouldn't @b.Str be "Bar" ?

[15:08] <guifa> yoleaux: it's not the pod code that needs golfing... it's the text itself haha

[15:08] <jnthn> guifa: No, because = is assignment, which is copying, so you're fixing into an anonymous array, but then copying it's values into @b

[15:08] <jnthn> guifa: Use := instead

[15:10] <guifa> jnthn; thanks!  I'm finishing up the BF tutorial and I had the thought that it could be useful to return both a dump of the cell values AND the string output  

[15:10] <guifa> (I'm trying to show off as many features of P6 as I can)

[15:25] *** Cabanossi joined
[15:26] *** b2gills joined
[15:30] <Woodi> f/j pld

[15:31] <Woodi> oops, need to have less power outages...

[15:37] *** curan left
[15:43] *** lucasb left
[15:45] *** reach_satori left
[15:47] <ufobat_> Some more thoughts on Testo, I think testo intentionally left out ok() not-ok() but is testing it with WhateverCode like this:

[15:47] <ufobat_> is 1 ~~ 2, *.so, 'test if something that matched is so';

[15:48] <ufobat_> you could also test: is "foo", *.contains("o"), 'contains "o"';

[15:48] *** pmurias joined
[15:48] <ufobat_> but i cant think of a good way to "describe" the expectation, $expectation.perl or $expectation($got-value); doesnt give reasonable output

[15:49] <ufobat_> i would discourage to dest in this way

[15:51] <ufobat_> https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/perl6-Testo/issues/20

[15:55] *** mikejw left
[15:56] <pmurias> .tell jmerelo can I request a commit bit to the gsoc ideas repo?

[15:56] <yoleaux> pmurias: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[15:57] *** mikejw joined
[16:08] *** jme` left
[16:10] <patrickb> pmurias: I commented on your PR. It's great so see the ideas slowly pouring in!

[16:13] *** atroxaper joined
[16:13] <pmurias> patrickb: where should I add contact info? in the proposal?

[16:15] <patrickb> In the proposal next to the mentor name.

[16:16] <pmurias> patrickb: could you add be to the repo (so that I can tweak the idea proposal without having to do prs)?

[16:16] *** atroxaper left
[16:16] <pmurias> s/be/me/

[16:17] <patrickb> I already looked for the button but haven't found it yet. Might be I don't have the privileges to do so...

[16:18] <patrickb> Can I move your idea to complete ideas (I don't see what's wrong with it)?

[16:18] <pmurias> yes

[16:18] <pmurias> patrickb: I think I made the PR to an old version of the README and it got merged in the wrong place

[16:19] *** kensanata left
[16:19] <patrickb> Already fixed it.

[16:22] *** ravenousmoose_ left
[16:24] *** robertle left
[16:27] *** atroxaper joined
[16:32] *** molaf joined
[16:33] <atroxaper> .tell jnthn Hello. We have talked about debugger and mac in CommaIDE 2018-06-23. MoarVM uses 'localhost' word and CommaIDE uses '127.0.0.1'. That is why I'm getting CouldNotConnectException while starting a debug. You were going to change the word in CommaIDE, but as I see in decompiled code you didn't :) This is right? Could you fix it in the next release?

[16:33] <yoleaux> atroxaper: I'll pass your message to jnthn.

[16:34] *** lucasb joined
[16:35] <jnthn> atroxaper: Huh, I did put in a patch that tries both ::1 and 127.0.0.1. What else could localhost possibly be?

[16:35] <jnthn> Actually it used to use localhost

[16:36] <jnthn> But that could resolve differently to how it resolved in MoarVM, the solution being "try both in turn"

[16:38] <atroxaper> jnthn: Hm... I don't know what to say :) It worked when I rebuild MoarVM and "127.0.0.1".

[16:38] *** araraloren left
[16:39] <jnthn> Hm, odd indeed.

[16:39] <jnthn> Unless the retry logic I patched and rely upon, which I assumed was working fine, is otherwise dodgy

[16:40] <jnthn> Will play with it some more

[16:41] <atroxaper> Thank you. If I can help you with something - tell me :) I'm working in JetBrains by the way.

[16:43] <jnthn> Oh, cool :)

[16:43] <atroxaper> jnthn: I can connect 'telnet ::1 9999' and 'telnet localhost 9999' but not 127.0.0.1

[16:43] <jnthn> Which JetBrains office?

[16:44] <jnthn> I dropped by their Prague one a couple of months back.

[16:44] <atroxaper> Novosibirsk, Russia. TeamCity team :)

[16:44] <jnthn> Ah, that's quite a way from the Prague one. :D

[16:45] <atroxaper> Indeed :) 

[16:45] *** w17t joined
[16:50] <cpan-p6_> New module released to CPAN! Canoe (0.0.1) by 03ALOREN

[16:51] *** patrickb left
[16:56] *** reach_satori joined
[17:02] <El_Che> atroxaper, jnthn: on macos I can "nc localhost 22" and "nc 127.0.0.1 22" with problems

[17:02] <El_Che> the latest macos release from last week

[17:08] <pmurias> added a truffle proposal PR to the ideas repo

[17:12] *** jmerelo joined
[17:12] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[17:12] <yoleaux> 27 Jan 2019 17:50Z <lizmat> jmerelo: perhaps it's a good idea to postpone the Squashathon one week on account of FOSDEM next weekend ?

[17:12] <squashable6> jmerelo, ‚ö†üçï Next SQUASHathon in 2 days and ‚âà16 hours (2019-02-02 UTC-12‚åÅUTC+14). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[17:13] <yoleaux> 15:56Z <pmurias> jmerelo: can I request a commit bit to the gsoc ideas repo?

[17:13] <jmerelo> lizmat: right; I'm postponing it

[17:13] <jmerelo> .tell pmurias sure!

[17:13] <yoleaux> jmerelo: I'll pass your message to pmurias.

[17:21] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[17:21] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 9 days and ‚âà16 hours (2019-02-09 UTC-12‚åÅUTC+14). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[17:21] <jmerelo> OK ^^^

[17:21] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[17:21] <releasable6> jmerelo, Next release will happen when it's ready. 6 blockers. 160 out of 268 commits logged

[17:21] <releasable6> jmerelo, Details: https://gist.github.com/f7eebcae4b68009ce09bbb0b0ad8992e

[17:23] *** scimon left
[17:25] <pmurias> jmerelo: thanks

[17:25] <yoleaux> 17:13Z <jmerelo> pmurias: sure!

[17:26] *** yqt left
[17:26] <jmerelo> pmurias: the problem is now the quantity of Perl5 ideas in the repo. Let me count them... yep, still zero.

[17:27] *** domidumont1 left
[17:28] <atroxaper> jnthn: my things... As I see in JavaDoc, you use InetSocketAddress(hostname, port) method for creating addresses. Probably you may use just 'localhost' as hostname in the method. Or 'new InetSocketAddress(InetAddress.getLoopbackAddress(), port)'. I understand that you try to use IPv4 and IPv6 together, but I cannot find a way to create a loopback address separately for both protocols by open method. You can create both loopback addresses f

[17:28] <atroxaper> rom a byte array as standard Inet6AddressImpl#loopbackAddress() did.

[17:32] *** dakkar left
[17:36] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 7b50d0aff1 | cfa++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[17:36] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[17:36] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fix index entry.

[17:36] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/7b50d0aff1

[17:38] *** pmurias left
[17:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 3b893f317e | cfa++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[17:38] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[17:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Additional index entry fixes.

[17:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/3b893f317e

[17:39] <sena_kun> jmerelo, o/ do you mind me pm-ing now with a small request?

[17:42] *** domidumont joined
[17:42] <jmerelo> sena_kun: of course not

[17:42] <jmerelo> sena_kun: feel free

[17:43] *** jme` joined
[17:43] *** pmurias joined
[17:44] *** isomorphismes joined
[17:47] *** committable6 left
[17:49] *** committable6 joined
[17:49] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v committable6

[17:52] *** pmurias left
[17:52] *** jme` left
[17:54] *** pmurias joined
[17:58] *** bisectable6 left
[18:00] *** bisectable6 joined
[18:05] *** robertle joined
[18:11] *** pmurias left
[18:13] *** pmurias joined
[18:32] <sena_kun> jmerelo++

[18:33] *** patrickb joined
[18:44] <jmerelo> sena_kun: :-)

[18:46] *** mikejw left
[18:46] *** mikejw joined
[18:55] *** xinming left
[19:01] *** pecastro joined
[19:07] <cpan-p6_> New module released to CPAN! XML-Class (0.0.6) by 03JSTOWE

[19:14] *** lucasb left
[19:23] *** melezhik joined
[19:23] <melezhik> Hi! How do I convert perl5 regexp in perl6 one? /[\w\d-\._]/

[19:24] <melezhik> https://docs.perl6.org/language/regexes#Enumerated_character_classes_and_ranges

[19:24] <timotimo> m: say "12345" ~~ m:P5/[\w\d-\._]/

[19:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Illegal range endpoint in regex: \d-\.‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3say "12345" ~~ m:P5/[\w\d-\._]7‚èè5/‚ê§¬ª

[19:24] <melezhik> probably found ((=:

[19:24] <timotimo> aaw

[19:25] <melezhik> sorry for noise 

[19:25] <sena_kun> m: say 'AZaz1.2.3.4_-_' ~~ / <[-a..zA..Z0..9._]>+ /

[19:25] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´ÔΩ¢AZaz1.2.3.4_-_ÔΩ£‚ê§¬ª

[19:25] <sena_kun> m: say 'AZaz1.2.3.4--_' ~~ / <[-a..zA..Z0..9._]>+ /

[19:26] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´ÔΩ¢AZaz1.2.3.4--_ÔΩ£‚ê§¬ª

[19:26] <sena_kun> melezhik, ^?

[19:26] <melezhik> yeah, thank you

[19:26] <sena_kun> yw

[19:26] <melezhik> basically just needed to find this <[ ]> thing 

[19:27] <timotimo> yeah, don't forget about \d also matching "unicodey" digits

[19:28] <sena_kun> m: say '„Ç∏„ÉØ„Ç∏„ÉØ' ~~ /\w+/

[19:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´ÔΩ¢„Ç∏„ÉØ„Ç∏„ÉØÔΩ£‚ê§¬ª

[19:28] <timotimo> m: say "b√§h" ~~ /<[a..zA..Z]>+/

[19:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´ÔΩ¢bÔΩ£‚ê§¬ª

[19:34] *** pmurias left
[19:36] <melezhik> timotimo: yeah, thanks for the warning ...

[19:38] *** ravenousmoose joined
[19:41] *** jmerelo left
[19:45] <lizmat> melezhik: also, there's some discussion on deprecating the :P5 argument

[19:45] <ufobat_> :-(

[19:45] <timotimo> whoa, i hadn't heard that at all

[19:46] <El_Che> I heard :P5 was very limited

[19:46] *** domidumont left
[19:46] <lizmat> and it's also unclear *which* version of P5 regexes it supports

[19:46] <timotimo> yeah, it's not extremely good

[19:47] <lizmat> P5 regexes have evolved a bit since :P5 was implemented, afaik

[19:47] <timotimo> but the old versions of perl5 haven't changed :D

[19:49] *** molaf left
[19:50] *** pmurias joined
[19:50] <El_Che> maybe it should be something for a module

[19:50] <El_Che> I wonder if there is someone out there creating perl5 migration modules :)

[19:53] <melezhik> lizmat: sure, I am not going to use :P5

[19:55] <ufobat_> lizmat, tyil: i think https://github.com/ugexe/Perl6-ecosystems is being generated with https://github.com/ugexe/Perl6-App--ecogen every day.

[19:55] <ufobat_> in the p6c.json file there is already the version of each module

[19:59] <ufobat_> There is Perl::Ecosystem as a wrapper around http://ecosystem-api.p6c.org/projects.json, i am not sure where this URL comes from

[20:08] <cpan-p6_> New module released to CPAN! Tinky (0.0.7) by 03JSTOWE

[20:10] *** pmurias left
[20:11] <gfldex> "sha256sum: the --binary and --text options are meaningless when verifying checksums"

[20:11] <gfldex> looks like I have a new project to implement in Perl¬†6 :)

[20:12] <gfldex> I ment to copy: sha256sum: the --zero option is not supported when verifying checksums

[20:13] <gfldex> I my 20 years of files I have some pretty nasty filenames. Unix tools are not good at dealing with those.

[20:22] *** MilkmanDan left
[20:22] *** MilkmanDan joined
[20:25] <guifa> I have a really long signature and my alignment OCD is going crazy.  I can either line up with types or the type smiley or the coercer () but not all three =\

[20:25] <guifa> What do y'all think looks better?

[20:26] *** zachk joined
[20:26] <timotimo> use unspace to put one of them in a new line x_X

[20:27] <ufobat_> AlexDaniel, didn't you want to transfer the perl6-Temp-Path repo to me?

[20:28] <guifa> You jest but I legit thought about using that

[20:29] <guifa> But that actually requires a space, and in most cases I only needed one extra space for alignment

[20:29] <timotimo> you can actually have an unpsace that's just a \ iirc

[20:36] <guifa> p6: my &foo = sub (Str\:D() $bar) { say $bar }

[20:36] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Invalid typename 'D' in parameter declaration.‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3my &foo = sub (Str\:D7‚èè5() $bar) { say $bar }‚ê§¬ª

[20:37] <guifa> Actually, it doesn't even like it if there's a space after it

[20:37] <guifa> p6: my &foo = sub (Str\     :D() $bar) { say $bar }

[20:37] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Invalid typename 'D' in parameter declaration.‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3my &foo = sub (Str\     :D(7‚èè5) $bar) { say $bar }‚ê§¬ª

[20:42] *** zachk left
[20:43] *** zachk joined
[20:45] <guifa> Is that a bug or by design that an unspace shouldn't be allowed there?  (I'm guessing maybe it's interpreting Str:D() as single token, and unspace only works between tokens maybe?

[20:48] <timotimo> i'm not sure how the unspace rules work exactly

[20:48] <timotimo> i use it barely ever at all

[20:48] <timotimo> especially since detaching method calls is now allowed

[20:51] <AlexDaniel> ufobat_: you have to delete this first: https://github.com/ufobat/perl6-Temp-Path

[20:52] *** pmurias joined
[20:57] *** guifa left
[20:57] *** guifa joined
[20:58] <guifa> timotimo: here's the whole monstrosity

[20:58] <guifa> https://pasteboard.co/HYJXwpy.png

[20:59] <timotimo> have you considered a subset declaration for .chars > 0?

[20:59] <timotimo> well tbh with Str:D you could just as well where *.so

[20:59] <guifa> (and I caught like two small typos) 

[21:00] <guifa> Ah I didn't think about *.so

[21:00] <timotimo> m: multi sub foo($a) { say "nope $a.perl() }; multi sub foo(Str:D $a where *.so) { say "yup $a.perl()" }; foo(""); foo(Str), foo("a"); foo("0")

[21:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Two terms in a row‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3ere *.so) { say "yup $a.perl()" }; foo("7‚èè5"); foo(Str), foo("a"); foo("0")‚ê§    expecting any of:‚ê§        infix‚ê§        infix stopper‚ê§        pos‚Ä¶¬ª

[21:00] <timotimo> m: multi sub foo($a) { say "nope $a.perl()" }; multi sub foo(Str:D $a where *.so) { say "yup $a.perl()" }; foo(""); foo(Str), foo("a"); foo("0")

[21:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´nope ""‚ê§nope Str‚ê§yup "a"‚ê§yup "0"‚ê§¬ª

[21:01] <guifa> That's a good one to add in, I was just thinking I could use whatever objects for some of them

[21:02] <lizmat> patrickb: message received

[21:08] *** andrzejku joined
[21:16] *** lizmat_ joined
[21:19] *** lizmat left
[21:19] *** ravenousmoose left
[21:22] * patrickb is off for today.

[21:22] *** patrickb left
[21:23] *** zakharyas joined
[21:28] *** drolax joined
[21:30] *** molaf joined
[21:34] *** mikejw left
[21:36] *** pmurias left
[21:40] <cpan-p6_> New module released to CPAN! Audio-Hydrogen (0.0.4) by 03JSTOWE

[21:42] *** zakharyas left
[21:48] *** pmurias joined
[21:54] *** pmurias left
[22:02] *** _isomorphismes joined
[22:07] *** skids left
[22:10] *** pmurias joined
[22:12] *** robertle left
[22:25] *** andrzejku left
[22:37] <lucs> From within my program, can I tell MAIN() not to consider any argument starting with '--' to be a named argument and just pass it along?

[22:40] <timotimo> you mean everything after a "--"?

[22:41] <lucs> Well, having the same effect, but without having to put that '--' on the command line.

[22:41] <timotimo> so more like "never interpret named arguments"?

[22:41] *** dualerium joined
[22:41] <lucs> Yes

[22:42] <lucs> Never, but just for this program, eh :)

[22:42] <timotimo> sounds like you want to skip MAIN and just call a multi sub with @*ARGS

[22:43] *** isomorphismes left
[22:43] <lucs> Hmm...

[22:43] <timotimo> but there was recently changes to make the MAIN mechanism more pluggable. i haven't looked at that at all, but it could help you

[22:43] *** isomorphismes joined
[22:44] <lucs> The @*ARGS idea is fine, now that you mention it.

[22:44] <lucs> Thanks.

[22:44] <lucs> (so used to using MAIN()...)

[22:45] *** pmurias left
[22:45] <timotimo> it's a very nice tool

[22:47] <lucs> You know, Perl6 is so nice that it turns out I'm implementing yaknis: don't really need 'em, but they're easy yaks to shave, so just do it.

[22:51] *** isomorphismes left
[22:59] *** Cabanossi left
[23:01] *** leont joined
[23:04] *** _isomorphismes left
[23:06] *** ravenousmoose joined
[23:06] *** dualerium left
[23:06] *** ravenousmoose is now known as ravenousmoose[aw

[23:06] *** Cabanossi joined
[23:06] *** drolax left
[23:06] *** ravenousmoose[aw left
[23:11] *** Cabanossi left
[23:16] *** lizmat_ is now known as lizmat

[23:17] *** Cabanossi joined
[23:24] *** Cabanossi left
[23:25] *** Cabanossi joined
[23:27] *** melezhik left
[23:33] *** entonian joined
[23:35] *** rindolf left
[23:38] *** hythm_ joined
[23:40] *** entonian left
[23:43] *** hythm__ joined
[23:43] *** hythm_ left
[23:43] *** hythm__ left
[23:43] *** Cabanossi left
[23:44] *** leont left
[23:45] *** Cabanossi joined
[23:45] *** hythm_ joined
[23:45] <hythm_> p6: enum C (A => 0, B => 1); multi s (+A) {}; multi s (+B) {}; say +A; s 0;

[23:45] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´0‚ê§Ambiguous call to 's(Int)'; these signatures all match:‚ê§:(+\A is raw)‚ê§:(+\B is raw)‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[23:48] *** Sgeo_ joined
[23:49] <hythm_> should not s multi dispatch to s (0) instead of  s (Int) ?

[23:49] *** guifa left
[23:49] *** pecastro left
[23:51] <sena_kun> nope, enum is most likely Int. You want another thing instead...

[23:51] *** Sgeo left
[23:52] <sena_kun> or, hmm...

[23:52] <sena_kun> what is your goal?

[23:53] <jnthn> +A is a one-arg rule slurpy bound into the term A

[23:53] <jnthn> It's nothing to do with the enum value A

[23:54] <jnthn> p6: enum C (A => 0, B => 1); multi s ($ where +A) {}; multi s ($ where +B) {}; say +A; s 0;

[23:54] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´0‚ê§¬ª

[23:55] <jnthn> p6: enum C (A => 0, B => 1); multi s (A) { say "A" }; multi s (B) { say "B" }; s A; s B;

[23:55] <camelia> rakudo-moar c2e272ef6: OUTPUT: ¬´A‚ê§B‚ê§¬ª

[23:56] <jnthn> Can dispatch on the enum elements themselves too

[23:57] <hythm_> i have enum COMMAND, mapping keyboard keys to their keyval. for instance "f" is mapped to 102, and so on, the goal is when the user press the key "f", it should dispatch multi  command (F)

[23:58] <hythm_> thanks jnthn, that's exactly what i was looking for

[23:58] *** mowcat joined
[23:59] <jnthn> It'll work, though fair warning: a hash table keyed on the enum elements and with code objects as the values will probably perform notably better. :)

[23:59] <hythm_> noted.

[23:59] <jnthn> But if it's not a hot path, sure, enjoy the multis. Who knows, we might figure out how to make it fast some day... :)

[23:59] <jnthn> I guess nobody types *that* fast...

