[00:01] *** ChoHag left
[00:38] *** mowcat left
[00:42] *** raschipi_ joined
[00:43] *** raschipi left
[00:48] *** raschipi_ is now known as raschipi

[00:51] <Xliff> m: my @a = ^5; say @a[^*]

[00:51] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´(0 1 2 3 4)‚ê§¬ª

[00:51] <Xliff> m: my @a = ^5; say @a[1..^*]

[00:51] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´(1 2 3)‚ê§¬ª

[00:51] *** xiaoyafeng joined
[01:00] <Xliff> m: my @a = ^5; say @a[1..2, *-1]

[01:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´((1 2) 4)‚ê§¬ª

[01:00] <Xliff> m: my @a = ^5; say @a[1...2, *-1]

[01:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´(1 2 4)‚ê§¬ª

[01:04] *** matiasli1a left
[01:08] *** molaf left
[01:14] *** bakedb left
[01:15] *** bakedb joined
[01:20] *** molaf joined
[01:57] *** Manifest0 left
[02:02] *** Manifest0 joined
[02:13] *** Actualeyes joined
[02:14] *** Actualeyes left
[02:14] *** Manifest0 left
[02:19] *** Manifest0 joined
[02:34] <Xliff> m: 50 ~~ 0..30

[02:34] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: ( no output )

[02:34] <Xliff> m: say 50 ~~ 0..30

[02:34] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª

[02:34] <Xliff> m: say 29 ~~ 0..30

[02:34] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[02:34] <Xliff> m: say -1 ~~ 0..30

[02:34] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª

[02:52] *** dumbintel joined
[02:59] *** Manifest0 left
[03:05] *** Manifest0 joined
[03:16] *** Manifest0 left
[03:21] *** Manifest0 joined
[03:30] *** kaare__ left
[03:30] *** kaare__ joined
[03:31] *** skids left
[03:32] *** Guest67789 left
[03:33] *** success joined
[03:33] *** success is now known as Guest13516

[03:40] *** raschipi left
[03:42] *** Cabanoss- joined
[03:43] *** Cabanossi left
[03:43] *** Cabanoss- is now known as Cabanossi

[03:43] *** dumbintel left
[03:50] *** lookatme_q left
[03:55] *** xinming left
[04:08] *** TeamBlast left
[04:10] *** TeamBlast joined
[05:05] *** Manifest0 left
[05:06] *** reach_satori left
[05:07] *** reach_satori joined
[05:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Kaiepi++ created pull request #2767: Document Scheduler.cue edge cases with :at/:in/:every

[05:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2767

[05:14] *** Manifest0 joined
[05:27] *** jmerelo joined
[05:27] *** molaf left
[05:29] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[05:29] <releasable6> jmerelo, Next release will happen when it's ready. 1 blocker. 132 out of 284 commits logged (‚ö† 2 warnings)

[05:29] <releasable6> jmerelo, Details: https://gist.github.com/fd47e58bc0687d898da25c181ca3ed85

[05:38] *** Util left
[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: be90f281c9 | (Ben Davies)++ | doc/Type/Scheduler.pod6

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Document Scheduler.cue edge cases with :at/:in/:every

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/be90f281c9

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 18d2226380 | (Juan Juli√°n Merelo Guerv√≥s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Scheduler.pod6

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #2767 from Kaiepi/scheduler

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Document Scheduler.cue edge cases with :at/:in/:every

[05:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/18d2226380

[05:51] *** Util joined
[05:53] *** hakank left
[06:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 8b23372479 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/List.pod6

[06:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Eliminates wrong definition of map

[06:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[06:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: This addresses partially #2675. Probably new examples will need to be

[06:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: added to clarify how the sigilless argument works.

[06:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/8b23372479

[06:07] *** domidumont joined
[06:09] <jmerelo> we need to do something about ecosystem indices

[06:09] *** Kaiepi left
[06:09] <jmerelo> Everything is starting to fail: docker builds, travis tests... 

[06:09] <jmerelo> Can't we redirect ecosystem.p6c.org to the new (provisional) hosting?

[06:10] *** Kaiepi joined
[06:15] *** netrino joined
[06:23] <ufobat__> is there a way to remove a mixin from an object?

[06:23] <ufobat__> m: role Foo {}; my $a = [1,2,3] but Foo; $a.WHAT.say

[06:23] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´(Array+{Foo})‚ê§¬ª

[06:31] *** netrino left
[06:38] <jmerelo> ufobat__: that's a good one. I want to say yes, with the help of the MOP, but would be hard pressed to tell you how.

[06:38] *** jmerelo left
[06:39] <ufobat__> :D

[06:39] <ufobat__> the coercion methods seem to work sometimes sometimes not :(

[06:39] <ufobat__> i just created a rakudo issue 

[06:45] *** sena_kun joined
[06:55] *** Manifest0 left
[06:57] *** [Sno] left
[06:59] *** abraxxa joined
[07:01] *** abraxxa left
[07:01] *** abraxxa joined
[07:03] *** Manifest0 joined
[07:05] *** rindolf joined
[07:14] *** Manifest0 left
[07:19] *** Manifest0 joined
[07:19] *** patrickb joined
[07:20] *** cpage_ left
[07:32] *** cgfbee joined
[08:06] *** rindolf left
[08:12] *** Manifest0 left
[08:15] *** antoniogamiz joined
[08:15] <antoniogamiz> hey o/

[08:16] <sena_kun> o/

[08:17] *** Manifest0 joined
[08:20] *** rindolf joined
[08:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: c4712fddb0 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[08:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add infix C¬´(<)¬ª, infix C¬´‚äÇ¬ª, infix C¬´‚äÑ¬ª to operators

[08:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/c4712fddb0

[08:24] <ufobat__> jnthn, what would you suggest to remove mixins? (dont want to hijack the ticket)

[08:30] <timotimo> store the original object away when mixing in and give a method to get at the previous object (though that won't copy over changes to the existing attributes)

[08:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 863ebf0a4e | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[08:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add infix C¬´(<=)¬ª, infix C¬´‚äÜ¬ª, infix C¬´‚äà¬ª to operators

[08:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/863ebf0a4e

[08:40] *** andrzejku joined
[08:40] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 932d992fae | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[08:40] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add infix C¬´(>)¬ª, infix C¬´‚äÇ¬ª, infix C¬´‚äÖ¬ª to operators

[08:40] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/932d992fae

[08:40] <ufobat__> timotimo, i dont get what you've written in the brackets

[08:41] <timotimo> well, if you use "but", it will give you a clone that has the new type and keeps the data from the existing object

[08:42] <ufobat__> yeah

[08:42] <timotimo> so when you just grab the existing object back, any changes to the attributes that the clone has done will be lost

[08:42] <ufobat__> ah

[08:44] <ufobat__> mhm maybe it's easier for me to avoid the mixin at all and use a class instead, that has the $value as an attribute.

[08:44] *** zakharyas joined
[08:44] <ufobat__> thanks :)

[08:47] <antoniogamiz> how much time should take zef to install doc dependencies?

[08:49] <sena_kun> antoniogamiz, it depends. due to p6c.org being down, you are likely observing a 6 minute delay. you can avoid that by updating zef

[08:49] <antoniogamiz> sena_kun: aaahh ok, I'll do that then :)

[08:50] *** cpage joined
[08:50] <sena_kun> antoniogamiz, and you can add --/update option, like `zef --/update Foo::Bar` to avoid ecosystem cache update process, which causes a delay

[08:51] <timotimo> yeah, composition is very good

[08:51] <timotimo> mixins are extra useful if you've got to "sneak past" some type checks

[08:51] <antoniogamiz> sena_kun: nice! mmm I've rebuilt zef and now it says that cannot find JSON::Tiny 

[08:52] <antoniogamiz> executing zef --deps-only install . in doc repo

[08:53] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: bbd341d0c3 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[08:53] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add infix C¬´(>=)¬ª, infix C¬´‚äá¬ª, infix C¬´‚äâ¬ª to operators

[08:53] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/bbd341d0c3

[08:59] <ufobat__> timotimo, maybe I am more looking for a eqv that ignores mixins?

[08:59] <antoniogamiz> first step to work in docs is to build the docs :D

[09:01] *** reach_satori left
[09:03] *** broquain1 is now known as broquaint

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: dd2cf45f4e | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Remove special section about set operators

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: It was empty

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/dd2cf45f4e

[09:05] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:06] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:06] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:06] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:11] <timotimo> you mean an "eqv" operator? because IIRC eqv explicitly requires the types to match exactly

[09:11] <timotimo> which is probably what you mean

[09:11] <ufobat__> yeah

[09:13] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: lizmat self-assigned $*REPO and CompUnit::Repository::* classes not documented https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/502

[09:13] <timotimo> should i try becoming more awake before giving any more "advice"?

[09:14] *** pecastro joined
[09:15] <ufobat__> ich hab keine ahnung :D

[09:15] <ufobat__> oh sorry, wrong chat window

[09:17] <ufobat__> timotimo, i was happy with your adivce :)

[09:26] *** Manifest0 left
[09:27] <jast> wrong window? that comment is always appropriate, at least when I say it :}

[09:29] <timotimo> that also happens to fit me like a glove

[09:33] *** Manifest0 joined
[09:37] <antoniogamiz> what was the checklink app written in perl or perl6?

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: b89f2610ad | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/terms.pod6

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Moved term ‚àÖ to terms

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Also add some codepoint information to some other terms

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b89f2610ad

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 5a90e2022d | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Removed term ‚àÖ from operators

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Also added some terms to the overview, added link to terms documentation.

[09:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/5a90e2022d

[09:38] <lizmat> this concludes my work on that part of the documentation for today

[09:38] <lizmat> starting on the P6W now

[09:45] *** domidumont left
[09:55] *** mowcat joined
[09:59] <lizmat> hmmm... Travis failures of doc are because of missing dependencies during testing?

[09:59] <lizmat> ===> Failed to find dependencies: JSON::Fast, Test::META

[09:59] <lizmat> what's the deal there ?

[10:00] <antoniogamiz> mmmm maybe is zef, I tried to rebuild the doc a moment ago a zef didnt find some modules

[10:00] <antoniogamiz> and I had to install them from their repos

[10:00] <lizmat> ugexe nine  ^^^^ ideas

[10:07] <antoniogamiz> where can I see why the run has failed? I new to shippable

[10:07] <antoniogamiz> I am*

[10:09] *** ChoHag joined
[10:10] <antoniogamiz> ah I can see the error in travis

[10:31] *** mowcat left
[10:40] *** reach_satori joined
[10:49] *** Manifest0 left
[10:51] *** zakharyas left
[10:54] *** bbkr joined
[10:55] *** Manifest0 joined
[10:59] *** aborazmeh joined
[10:59] *** aborazmeh left
[10:59] *** aborazmeh joined
[10:59] *** bbkr left
[11:03] *** xp7 joined
[11:05] *** jmerelo joined
[11:10] *** Actualeyes joined
[11:20] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[11:20] <releasable6> jmerelo, Next release will happen when it's ready. 1 blocker. 132 out of 284 commits logged (‚ö† 2 warnings)

[11:20] <releasable6> jmerelo, Details: https://gist.github.com/dd1755733271f775fbdf428e04e94ab9

[11:31] *** Manifest0 left
[11:31] <antoniogamiz> jmerelo:  doc build is failing

[11:31] <lizmat> I think this is caused by the ecosystem providing a borked cpan.json file atm

[11:32] <jmerelo> lizmat: I think it's simply timing out.

[11:33] <lizmat> https://github.com/ugexe/Perl6-ecosystems/blob/master/cpan.json  should be a ~50K lines JSON file: it isn't atm

[11:34] <jmerelo> lizmat: that's why I asked this morning for a redirection of those addresses. I got like 2 dozens emails from Docker Hub also telling me that docker container build are failing

[11:34] <jmerelo> lizmat: Ah, wow. It's empty.

[11:34] <lizmat> yup

[11:34] <jmerelo> lizmat: that's a different problem. CPAN is failing this weekend.

[11:34] <lizmat> I guess a revert of the last update would be best, but /me cannot do that

[11:34] <lizmat> ugexe ^^

[11:35] <jmerelo> lizmat: Somebody mentioned in Twitter they were doing maintenance operations 

[11:35] <jmerelo> So perl6.org pages are failing, cpan is failing, and we should really, really, do something about the infrastructure.

[11:35] <lizmat> ah, the Perl NOC  ....  hmmm

[11:36] <jmerelo> https://log.perl.org/2019/04/maintenance-week.html

[11:36] <timotimo> hmm.

[11:36] <jmerelo> Today is a bank holiday in the UK, although this in in the Netherlands, if I remember correctly.

[11:36] <timotimo> learn perl5? rewrite modules.perl6.org's module updater in perl6?

[11:36] <lizmat> no, no holiday in NL

[11:36] <timotimo> nah, i've got loads of stuff to do already

[11:36] *** Manifest0 joined
[11:36] <jmerelo> timotimo: just more resilient or redundant infrastructure.

[11:37] <jmerelo> timotimo: Perl6 module updater is in perl5? 

[11:37] <jmerelo> timotimo: oh, wow

[11:37] <lizmat> yeah, hysterical raisins

[11:37] <timotimo> infrastructure doesn't https://gist.github.com/timo/b28a1199c8d989f9f2bc9f4a0a0cbf49

[11:37] <timotimo> er

[11:37] <timotimo> infrastructure redundancy doesn't add more features :)

[11:37] <jmerelo> Well, perl6 docs web is also written using mojolicious.

[11:38] <timotimo> oops, the output isn't right %)

[11:38] <jmerelo> return code 2560 is not a good code.

[11:38] <jmerelo> lizmat: those raisins are the best.

[11:38] <timotimo> "connection timed out"

[11:39] <jmerelo> I think we should try and create a doc mirror in GitHub, simply perl6doc.github.io

[11:39] <jmerelo> At the end of the day, it's all static. Might not be the main site, but could be used to redirect in a pinch.

[11:40] <timotimo> [2019-05-06 11:38:44.74156] [32387] [info] Using ModulesPerl6::DbBuilder::Dist::Source::CPAN to load cpan://id/J/JM/JMERELO/Perl6/Git-Blame-0.0.1.meta

[11:40] <jmerelo> If no one is (strongly) against, it wouldn't be difficult to set up, either from travis or locally when I build it. Main difference would be using my own Github ID or create one ex profeso.

[11:41] <jmerelo> timotimo: er

[11:41] <jmerelo> timotimo: what?

[11:41] <timotimo> yes

[11:41] <jmerelo> timotimo: that is failing?

[11:41] <timotimo> no

[11:41] <timotimo> i'm showing that it's in fact working now

[11:41] <jmerelo> ah, OK

[11:42] <timotimo> i already kicked off the update last hour

[11:42] <timotimo> but it didn't pick up your Git::Blame dist

[11:42] <timotimo> lizmat noticed that

[11:42] <jmerelo> then the cpan.json above should be updated in the next sweep. It's activated every two hours.

[11:42] <timotimo> now i fixed the underlying problem

[11:42] <timotimo> where does it grab its data?

[11:43] <jmerelo> timotimo: you've got to dig into ugexe's repos. 

[11:43] <jmerelo> timotimo: right, this is it: https://github.com/ugexe/Perl6-App--ecogen

[11:44] <jmerelo> https://github.com/ugexe/Perl6-App--ecogen/blob/master/lib/App/ecogen/cpan.pm6 it's taking it from the same place

[11:45] <jmerelo> timotimo: maybe because it was one of the last ones... I upgraded it to 0.0.2 also.

[11:46] <timotimo> that will not work

[11:47] <jmerelo> timotimo: what will not work?

[11:47] <timotimo> ecogen

[11:48] <jmerelo> timotimo: I guess so. Hence the empty cpan.json

[11:50] <jmerelo> Here's the issue for copying the docs in GitHub. Happy about any comment or suggestion https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2768

[11:51] <timotimo> https://github.com/ugexe/Perl6-App--ecogen/pull/4

[11:51] <timotimo> ugexe: you don't happen to be around right now? :)

[11:53] *** raschipi joined
[11:53] *** llfourn left
[11:54] *** domidumont joined
[11:55] *** Xliff left
[11:56] *** domidumont1 joined
[11:58] <timotimo> 995 of 1384 dists processed

[11:59] <lizmat> https://log.perl.org/2019/04/maintenance-week.html   # underlying issue 

[11:59] *** domidumont left
[11:59] *** reach_satori left
[12:00] <timotimo> i'll put that in the github issue as well

[12:00] <timotimo> someone should probably be subscribed to that :)

[12:00] <jmerelo> .seen ugexe

[12:00] <yoleaux> I saw ugexe 5 May 2019 19:58Z in #perl6-dev: <ugexe> praise be windows IOCP

[12:01] <jmerelo> timotimo: he's like 6 or 7 hours behind. Not likely.

[12:01] <timotimo> ah, that makes sense

[12:02] <mst> what's breaking? we had some issues wrt PAUSE but if it was already on cpan, it didn't disappear

[12:02] <timotimo> mst: we're using cpan-rsync.perl.org for our stuff; that's not responding to connection attempts

[12:02] <timotimo> http://mirrors.cpan.org/

[12:02] <timotimo> i'm not sure why it's got green on the left and red on the right

[12:03] <timotimo> and what "no time" means

[12:04] <timotimo> probably "tried to find out the exact time the mirror last synced, but failed to do that"

[12:04] * jmerelo goes AFK to cook.

[12:04] <mst> sounds likely

[12:04] <timotimo> and somehow the failure mode wasn't understood to mean "the mirror is actually down completely" or something

[12:05] *** jmerelo left
[12:05] <timotimo> anyway, it was a little foolish of us to use just a single host out of the CPA*N*

[12:05] <mst> aye, though also, better to stress test things now than later when there's more people to be effective

[12:05] <mst> affected even

[12:06] <mst> insufficient coffee error at sentence 1

[12:06] <timotimo> i'm sure there's a clever tool or guide to figuring out what kinds of things an application is trying to reach, and to insert faults at every individual point

[12:06] * timotimo inspired by steven lembark's testing talk

[12:07] <mst> IME that's called 'mondays'

[12:07] <timotimo> huh, there's two videos of that talk? one is about a quarter hour longer compared to the other, but both are on the The Perl Conference youtube channel? uploaded 2 days apart?

[12:08] <timotimo> oh

[12:08] <timotimo> the other one is actually a different talk altogether

[12:08] <timotimo> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XREzI5cPOSo - anyway, i liked this talk

[12:10] <timotimo> 80 dists left to process

[12:11] <jdv79> perhaps the pause artifacts should be fixed and used?

[12:12] <timotimo> how do you mean?

[12:12] <timotimo> oh, you mean that if the mirror is down it shouldn't result in an empty list, just in what was there before?

[12:12] <jdv79> iirc pause generates metadata for p6 dists

[12:12] <timotimo> oh, fixed as in repaired, rather than fixed as in made unchanging

[12:13] *** Geth left
[12:13] *** Geth joined
[12:13] *** aborazmeh left
[12:13] <jdv79> no, i just woke up.  fixed as in not relying on a third party indexer

[12:14] <jdv79> but im just shootin from the hip sans coffee:)

[12:14] <timotimo> sorry, i barely know anything about that; we are currently relying on the same indexer that does perl5 dists or something like that?

[12:15] <jdv79> ill try to remember to talkbto him about it

[12:15] *** antoniogamiz left
[12:15] <jdv79> gotta head to $work now

[12:15] <timotimo> viel erfolg!

[12:21] *** curiouz_k0d3r joined
[12:23] *** llfourn joined
[12:24] *** curiouz_k0d3r left
[12:28] *** llfourn left
[12:30] *** Manifest0 left
[12:31] *** raschipi left
[12:35] *** Manifest0 joined
[12:41] *** Manifest0 left
[12:43] *** reportable6 left
[12:44] *** sno joined
[12:46] *** Manifest0 joined
[12:47] *** reportable6 joined
[12:48] *** xp7 left
[12:55] *** Manifest0 left
[13:00] *** Manifest0 joined
[13:04] *** matias1 joined
[13:06] *** curiouz_k0d3r joined
[13:07] *** curiouz_k0d3r left
[13:08] *** llfourn joined
[13:13] *** llfourn left
[13:21] <tyil> there's currently 2 Geths in this channel, do you want me to kill off my instance?

[13:22] <timotimo> what we really should do is get the dns entry fixed so it points to either one of them :D

[13:22] <tyil> oh

[13:22] <tyil> I can't do anything with that :p

[13:22] <timotimo> aye

[13:23] <tyil> I hadn't paid any attention to the hack.p6c server's status, so I was just wondering if mine is still wanted

[13:23] <timotimo> ah

[13:23] <timotimo> i think the other geth runs on a completely different server. nine's if i'm not mistaken?

[13:23] <timotimo> but both geths require changes on github to make the hook point at a different URL

[13:24] <tyil> yeah, the hooks need to point to either one

[13:24] <timotimo> yup

[13:24] <tyil> (or both, if you like spam)

[13:25] <timotimo> until we change the dns and suddenly everything just works again

[13:25] <tyil> I'm not shy on resources right now, so I'll let it run until further notice for now

[13:25] <timotimo> thank you kindly

[13:25] <timotimo> oh, could you also run a synopsebot? :)

[13:26] <timotimo> https://github.com/perl6/synopsebot

[13:26] <tyil> I guess, if there's a docker image or repo I can look at 

[13:26] <timotimo> no docker yet, but it's at least very simple

[13:26] <tyil> making Docker images of Perl 6 projects is fairly simple

[13:26] <tyil> I have tyil/perl6 as a base which seems to work for everything I'ev tried thus far

[13:27] <timotimo> \o/

[13:27] *** llfourn joined
[13:27] <tyil> I'll take a peek when I get home, which is in 2 hours or so

[13:27] <tyil> shouldn't waste too much of the boss' time :>

[13:28] <tyil> looks like a simple script either way, though

[13:29] <timotimo> aye

[13:29] <timotimo> it doesn't even have a database or anything persistent

[13:30] <tyil> well, a TCP connection to the IRC server is better to be persistent

[13:30] <timotimo> that's true :D

[13:32] *** llfourn left
[13:36] *** zakharyas joined
[13:46] *** MilkmanDan left
[13:47] *** ChoHag left
[13:50] *** ChoHag joined
[13:50] *** MilkmanDan joined
[13:51] *** llfourn joined
[13:54] *** khisanth_ left
[13:56] *** llfourn left
[14:00] *** lucasb joined
[14:00] *** matias1 left
[14:08] *** khisanth_ joined
[14:18] *** mowcat joined
[14:19] *** Manifest0 left
[14:21] *** raschipi joined
[14:25] *** Manifest0 joined
[14:28] *** llfourn joined
[14:31] *** domidumont joined
[14:33] *** llfourn left
[14:33] *** domidumont1 left
[14:39] *** xinming joined
[14:46] *** zakharyas left
[14:52] *** molaf joined
[14:55] *** llfourn joined
[14:55] *** patrickb left
[14:58] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: I appear to not be able to find this weekend's Squashathon results ?

[15:04] *** llfourn left
[15:08] <sena_kun> squashable6, status

[15:08] <squashable6> sena_kun, Next SQUASHathon in 24 days and ‚âà20 hours (2019-06-01 UTC-14‚åÅUTC+12). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[15:09] <sena_kun> not the status, but the winner is announced, at least

[15:09] *** Sgeo joined
[15:12] *** Sgeo_ left
[15:16] <ufobat__> is there something comparable to weakref of perl5?

[15:17] <ufobat__> i wanna store objects in a hash, that would vanish if the object gets GCed. i just want to store some "meta information" there

[15:18] *** domidumont left
[15:19] *** jmerelo joined
[15:24] *** JappleAck joined
[15:24] <lizmat> notable6: weekly reset

[15:24] <notable6> lizmat, Moved existing notes to ‚Äúweekly_2019-05-06T15:24:20Z‚Äù

[15:24] <lizmat> and another Perl 6 Weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2019/05/06/2019-17-18-three-months-to-riga/

[15:25] <lizmat> moritz: ^^^

[15:26] *** kurahaupo left
[15:27] *** kurahaupo joined
[15:28] *** JappleAck left
[15:28] <jmerelo> lizmat++

[15:28] <timotimo> ufobat__: not with actual references, but you can emulate something like "alive bits" with DESTROY

[15:29] *** Xliff joined
[15:29] <Xliff> \o

[15:29] <Xliff> Can someone tell me why I am getting this when attempting to compile a role: "Type check failed in binding to parameter '<anon>'; expected Any but got ItemOrModel (ItemOrModel)"

[15:29] *** johnjohn101 joined
[15:30] <ufobat__> timotimo, i want to have this for "regular" objects lit Array or Int or Str and such, I think I can't modifiy their DESTROY methods

[15:30] <timotimo> lizmat: "the the river cruise"

[15:30] <timotimo> you can mix one in, probably

[15:31] <ufobat__> i am still looking for a way to "modify" my data, because the but (mixin) makes that my Int is no longer just an Int...

[15:31] <lizmat> timotimo++   # fixed

[15:31] <ufobat__> the approach with MyContainerClass that has $.data and $.meta means that I need to addess $obj.data all the time, thats no fun :-(

[15:31] <lizmat> afk for a bit&

[15:32] <Xliff> Code is here: https://github.com/Xliff/p6-GooCanvas/blob/master/lib/Goo/Roles/Table.pm6#L30

[15:36] *** llfourn joined
[15:37] <Xliff> m: subset IntStr is Int | Str; role T { method a (IntStr $a) { say "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; $a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete'); $a.a(1/2)

[15:37] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§No such method 'add_parent' for invocant of type 'Perl6::Metamodel::SubsetHOW'‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§¬ª

[15:38] <Xliff> m: my subset IntStr is Int | Str; role T { method a (IntStr $a) { say "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; $a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete'); $a.a(1/2)

[15:38] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§No such method 'add_parent' for invocant of type 'Perl6::Metamodel::SubsetHOW'‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§¬ª

[15:38] <Xliff> ?!?

[15:38] <Xliff> m: subset IntStr where Int | Str; role T { method a (IntStr $a) { say "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; $a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete'); $a.a(1/2)

[15:38] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Variable '$a' is not declared‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3y "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; 7‚èè5$a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete'); $a.a(‚ê§¬ª

[15:39] <Xliff> m: subset IntStr where Int | Str; role T { method a (IntStr $a) { say "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; my $a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete'); $a.a(1/2)

[15:39] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´Hi 0‚ê§Constraint type check failed in binding to parameter '$a'; expected IntStr but got Rat (0.5)‚ê§  in method a at <tmp> line 1‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§Hi Pete‚ê§¬ª

[15:39] <Xliff> m: subset IntStr where Int | Str; role T { method a (IntStr $a) { say "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; my $a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete');

[15:39] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´Hi 0‚ê§Hi Pete‚ê§¬ª

[15:40] <Xliff> m: subset IntStr of Mu where Int | Str; role T { method a (IntStr $a) { say "Hi { $a }"; }; }; class A does T {}; my $a = A.new; $a.a(0); $a.a('Pete');

[15:40] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´Hi 0‚ê§Hi Pete‚ê§¬ª

[15:41] *** llfourn left
[15:43] *** jmerelo left
[15:46] *** johnjohn101 left
[15:49] *** llfourn joined
[15:50] <Kaiepi> m: my $res = Promise.new; $res.keep: start start start start start start start start start start start start 1; $res = do with $res { $_ = await $_ while $_ ~~ Awaitable:D; $_ }; say $res

[15:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´WARNINGS for <tmp>:‚ê§1‚ê§Useless use of constant integer 1 in sink context (line 1)‚ê§¬ª

[15:50] <Kaiepi> m: my $res = Promise.new; $res.keep: start start start start start start start start start start start start { 1 }; $res = do with $res { $_ = await $_ while $_ ~~ Awaitable:D; $_ }; say $res

[15:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´1‚ê§¬ª

[15:54] *** llfourn left
[15:58] <sena_kun> m: y $a = start start start start start start start start start start start start { 1 }; while $a ~~ Awaitable { $a = await $a; LAST { say $a } }

[15:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Unsupported use of y///; in Perl 6 please use tr///‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3y7‚èè5 $a = start start start start start star‚ê§¬ª

[15:58] <sena_kun> m: my $a = start start start start start start start start start start start start { 1 }; while $a ~~ Awaitable { $a = await $a; LAST { say $a } }

[15:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´1‚ê§¬ª

[16:06] *** domidumont joined
[16:07] <timotimo> lizmat: "a few people where of the Perl 6 persuasion" :)

[16:25] *** llfourn joined
[16:26] *** Manifest0 left
[16:30] *** llfourn left
[16:32] *** Manifest0 joined
[16:36] *** jmerelo joined
[16:41] *** mowcat left
[16:47] *** ddddddd joined
[16:49] <jmerelo> So

[16:49] <jmerelo> If no one is strongly against this: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2768, I'm going to do it right now.

[16:50] <Xliff> jmerelo: That's a great idea! I can help maintain if you want.

[16:50] *** molaf left
[16:51] <sena_kun> jmerelo, have you asked folks who volunteer to care about infrastrucure stuff? ping rba, iirc

[16:51] *** sjn left
[16:51] <jmerelo> Xliff: thanks. I'll add you to the repo. 

[16:52] <jmerelo> sena_kun: they are all in the perl6 team, they must have received the issue.

[16:52] <jmerelo> The whole point is you don't need to care about it. I'll set up some commit hooks to generate it automatically every time I do some commit and push it

[16:53] <jmerelo> Anyone else wants to participate, they will just need to install the post-commit hook and re-generate every time they do changes.

[16:56] <Xliff> Does anyone know if there are better examples of nextcallee than what is in the docs?

[16:56] <jmerelo> Xliff: unlikely. But you can try the advent calendar or briandfoy book.

[16:56] <Xliff> Thanks.

[17:00] *** domidumont left
[17:05] *** robertle joined
[17:05] <jmerelo> https://perl6docs.github.io/

[17:05] <jmerelo> I'll set up hooks in a while.

[17:05] <raschipi> jmerelo++

[17:07] <jmerelo> As a matter of fact, I have found an empty perl6doc organization

[17:07] <jmerelo> That's why I have used perl6docs

[17:07] <jmerelo> I don't dismiss the possibility that it might have me younger me creating that organization, but I don't really have any recollection...

[17:08] <jmerelo> Anyone wants to be added to the organization, just let me know. The more people rebuilds when they change something, the better.

[17:08] *** mowcat joined
[17:08] <jmerelo> raschipi: you in?

[17:09] <raschipi> sure

[17:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 1b4b3e479b | (JJ Merelo)++ | README.md

[17:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Created GitHub mirror closes #2768

[17:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/1b4b3e479b

[17:18] <moritz> jmerelo++

[17:20] *** llfourn joined
[17:21] <jmerelo> moritz: you want in?

[17:22] <moritz> jmerelo: is the build manually triggered now?

[17:24] <jmerelo> moritz: manually and locally. I'll have to set up some post-commit hook, although I could also do it from Travis

[17:25] *** llfourn left
[17:32] <timotimo> jmerelo: will you also push to docs.perl6.org?

[17:33] <jmerelo> timotimo: for the time being, that's also manual. So yes, I guess so.

[17:34] <jmerelo> Will do it now, as a matter of fact. Thanks for the reminder.

[17:38] *** hudo joined
[17:40] *** matias1 joined
[17:47] <jmerelo> And generation really takes a long time. We should fix that. Let's see if our two GSoC students can tame that beast...

[17:48] <Xliff> Doc generation should benefit from parallelization. Has anyone tried to make the Makefile work with -j?

[17:48] <jmerelo> Xliff: long time ago we did. We stopped doing it.

[17:49] <jmerelo> Xliff: parallelization is not going to buy you much, anyway, because it's generating 2k files. Every time.

[17:49] *** kaare__ is now known as kaare_

[17:50] <jmerelo> Disk access is going to be sequential anyway

[17:50] <jmerelo> It would help that only what's changed was generated. But that's difficult to do right now, because we don't keep track of that.

[17:51] <jmerelo> Even if we kept track at a file level, it would be big improvement. Right now, there's no way of changing a comma in a Type file and re-generating that file and anything affected by it.

[17:51] <jmerelo> The GSoC projects should take care of that, but there are fundamental problems in the specification of the content, and the file itself.

[17:53] <jmerelo> moritz: it should be updated in docs.perl6.org now

[17:54] *** zakharyas joined
[17:56] <jmerelo> And in perl6docs.github.io too, now.

[17:56] <jmerelo> Ah, that was timotimo

[17:56] <raschipi> Where is the type graph stored?

[17:56] <jmerelo> Anyway, pushed both way

[17:57] <raschipi> found it

[17:57] *** kotrcka joined
[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/rafaelschipiura-Failure-is-Nil: a4787d9ade | (Rafael Schipiura)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | type-graph.txt

[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/rafaelschipiura-Failure-is-Nil: Failure is Nil

[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/rafaelschipiura-Failure-is-Nil: 

[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/rafaelschipiura-Failure-is-Nil: Failure is Nil which is Cool.

[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/rafaelschipiura-Failure-is-Nil: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/a4787d9ade

[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: rafaelschipiura++ created pull request #2769: Failure is Nil

[18:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2769

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: a4787d9ade | (Rafael Schipiura)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | type-graph.txt

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Failure is Nil

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Failure is Nil which is Cool.

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/a4787d9ade

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 09ebe6f06b | (Juan Juli√°n Merelo Guerv√≥s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | type-graph.txt

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #2769 from perl6/rafaelschipiura-Failure-is-Nil

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Failure is Nil

[18:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/09ebe6f06b

[18:07] <jmerelo> raschipi: another reason why type-graph.txt should be eliminted. There might be more errors like that one.

[18:07] <jmerelo> raschipi: good catch

[18:07] <raschipi> Well, are you proposing just not having a Type graph or generating it automatically from the docs?

[18:08] <jmerelo> raschipi: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2584

[18:08] *** johnjohn101 joined
[18:09] <raschipi> Sounds good to me. Although generating it automatically wouldn't have solved this problem because Failure wasn't declared is Nil in the docs either until a few days ago. I just didn't update in both places because I didn't find the file until now.

[18:10] <jmerelo> raschipi: I was thinking more along the lines of...

[18:10] <jmerelo> m: say Failure.^mro

[18:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´((Failure) Nil (Cool) (Any) (Mu))‚ê§¬ª

[18:11] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 5a10f56d4c | (Rafael Schipiura)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Int.pod6

[18:11] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: .Range isn't an Operator

[18:11] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[18:11] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Missed the additional =head1 in there.

[18:11] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/5a10f56d4c

[18:12] <raschipi> I see, getting it from Rakudo itself. That would be nice. It would be easier if it was possible to do the reverse, list everything that extends a certain Type.

[18:13] *** Guest13516 left
[18:13] <raschipi> So one would call Any.^children and go from there.

[18:13] <raschipi> Or rather Mu.^children

[18:14] <jmerelo> Any other way would probably be better than the current one.

[18:14] <raschipi> I mean the implementation. Listing a tree is way easier if you start at the root.

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 4b7d378618 | (Rafael Schipiura)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Int.pod6

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Better wording

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 'They' didn't refer to anything in particular.

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/4b7d378618

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 5e0cc7130c | (Rafael Schipiura)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Rational.pod6

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Better wording 2

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Same thing as my last commit.

[18:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/5e0cc7130c

[18:19] <jmerelo> raschipi: right. We could do that. We could them blacklist some of them to avoid adding them to the graph, like any NQP stuff.

[18:21] <raschipi> jmerelo: Can I ask you something? I don't remember if I already asked and you said no, so I'm just gonna ask agian. If it bothers you, feel free to ignore my request. I like your reflow commits, but it's difficult to see changes in a diff when you send new content and reflow in the same commit. Could you separate them in multiple commits? Send one with the work you're doing and another one reflowing the text?

[18:21] <jmerelo> sure

[18:21] <raschipi> Thanks

[18:22] * jmerelo reminds himself to do this from now on. It's going to be hard, because I do it as I go...

[18:24] <raschipi> I agree it's difficult, but reading code is done more frequently than writing it, so I think it would save effort in the long run for the project as a whole. Makes it easier to review your commits.

[18:25] <jmerelo> sure, no problem. Thanks for drawing this to my attention.

[18:28] <jmerelo> raschipi: agh, tabs break tests.

[18:29] <jmerelo> you fixed that?

[18:30] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: f64f1b9d54 | (JJ Merelo)++ | type-graph.txt

[18:30] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: No tabs

[18:30] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/f64f1b9d54

[18:31] <raschipi> oops

[18:31] <raschipi> I put tabs on purpose, shouldn't have.

[18:31] <jmerelo> No biggie

[18:32] <raschipi> Do you want me to remind you every time you forget to make separate commits and I have to fish content to review in a large reflow patch?

[18:33] *** vrurg left
[18:33] <jmerelo> raschipi: you can do it if you want, but I'll try to keep it separate. 

[18:34] <raschipi> I don't think it's a big deal, it's just to help you develop a new habit, if you think it will help.

[18:35] *** skids joined
[18:35] <raschipi> In my defense, I did submit it as a pull request and you reviewed it :p

[18:35] <jmerelo> as I said, feel free to do it... I

[18:36] <jmerelo> raschipi: that's why it fell on me to fix it... I didn't think there was going to be a problem with the tests; I merged before waiting for them.

[18:36] <jmerelo> raschipi: tests take 20 minutes and that's a problem. 

[18:37] <raschipi> Yeah, it's all good, it's just tongue-in-cheek banter.

[18:40] <jmerelo> raschipi: are you attending any perlcon this year?

[18:41] *** llfourn joined
[18:41] <jmerelo> raschipi: I'm generating again docs locally to see that they make of this new line...

[18:41] *** traxex joined
[18:42] <raschipi> I'm going to attend Debconf this year, they have a Perl miniconf. It's gonna be in the city I live...

[18:43] <jmerelo> Never been in Brazil...

[18:45] <raschipi> You should come. We will try our hardest to convince you to stay.

[18:45] <jmerelo> The first is easy, the second might be harder. Who's going to cook for my family then? :-)

[18:47] <raschipi> Well, no one said stay forever. Just a few seasons.

[18:47] <jmerelo> Until it stops raining or so :-)

[18:48] *** llfourn left
[18:48] <raschipi> What's a dry season?

[18:48] <jmerelo> :-)

[18:55] <rba> jmerelo: cool stuff. already thougt about using github pages to host static stuff.

[18:56] <rba> jmerelo: so travis is doing the generation themself?

[18:57] <jmerelo> rba: no for the time being. travis does not do a complete make html. It would take ages to test stuff. 

[18:57] <jmerelo> rba: but I could set up some other pipeline somewhere else. Maybe gitlab.

[18:57] *** skids left
[18:58] <jmerelo> rba: everything would be easy, again, if we had some way of generating only what's needed... 

[18:59] <rba> jmerelo: moritz helped already a lot. so we're currently try to create a list of what all we need. and there might be some more "buiild"-host requirement. (or we use CI/CD service aleady around; just try to get a feeling...)

[18:59] *** traxex left
[19:00] *** lucasb left
[19:00] <rba> jmerelo: "generate only what's needed" sounds like a great taks for GSoC...

[19:00] <rba> s/taks/task/

[19:00] <jmerelo> rba: that's what antoniogamiz is supposed to do.

[19:00] <jmerelo> rba: we need to overhaul the whole definition/generation/serving tooling of the documentation.

[19:02] *** vrurg joined
[19:02] <jmerelo> rba: a build host for docs might help, because right now it's using the serving host itself. This causes, by itself, some problems: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2227

[19:02] <rba> jmerelo: for static pages we look as well if we get some CDN in front of the hosting. this might solve the availablity issues as well...

[19:03] <jmerelo> rba: that will be great. 

[19:05] *** ddddddd left
[19:09] <jmerelo> raschipi: Already deployed with the new graph: https://docs.perl6.org/type/Failure

[19:09] <jmerelo> raschipi++

[19:10] <jmerelo> Also in perl6docs.github.io

[19:10] <jmerelo> I do have to write that hook...

[19:14] <tony-o_> AlexDaniel`: was travelling, where do i approve #23 ?

[19:14] *** f3ew left
[19:14] <tony-o_> err, nvm, finally found it, apparently still jet lagged

[19:15] *** f3ew joined
[19:16] *** gfldex left
[19:22] *** jmerelo left
[19:22] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: b0bd2bbe49 | (Ben Davies)++ | 2 files

[19:22] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Update docs on Scheduler.cue edge case handling

[19:22] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b0bd2bbe49

[19:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 6020b813a7 | (Ben Davies)++ | doc/Type/X/Scheduler/CueInNaNSeconds.pod6

[19:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fix X::Scheduler::CueInNaNSeconds message

[19:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/6020b813a7

[19:25] *** kaare_ left
[19:25] *** kaare_ joined
[19:35] *** gfldex joined
[19:39] *** Geth_ left
[19:39] *** leah2 left
[19:39] *** khisanth_ left
[19:39] *** b2gills left
[19:40] *** khisanth_ joined
[19:40] *** leah2_ joined
[19:40] *** b2gills joined
[19:41] *** llfourn joined
[19:43] *** success joined
[19:43] *** success is now known as Guest33742

[19:44] *** matias1 left
[19:47] *** llfourn left
[19:49] <sena_kun> Cro::LDAP 0.5 is released. (clap clap clap)

[19:49] *** ayerhart left
[19:49] <sena_kun> this is really an alpha release with a good portion of my ugly API, bugs, missing features and so on

[19:50] <sena_kun> but from now on I would like to get some help with detecting what features are needed from now on

[19:50] <sena_kun> so any bug reports, suggestions, feature requests are welcome, https://github.com/Altai-man/cro-ldap <-

[19:50] <sena_kun> cast El_Che 

[19:51] <timotimo> \o/

[19:51] <timotimo> cast summon bigger fish

[19:51] *** ayerhart joined
[19:53] <sena_kun> I really don't know a thing about LDAP(well, _now_ I do, and also now I can encode-decode ASN.1 BER in my mind), so I hope people who have more experience with it will be nice enough to knock me down with bug reports. :)

[19:53] <timotimo> i haven't done any ldap either

[19:53] <timotimo> well, a tiny bit

[19:55] <raschipi> I breath LDAP, but only as an operator.

[19:56] <lizmat> last time I worked on interfacing with an LDAP server, was ~25 years ago

[19:57] <lizmat> and I was not a happy camper, having to interface with a Microsoft implementation of LDAP that didn't follow the official specs (at least at the time)

[19:57] <timotimo> ha

[19:58] <sena_kun> hey, I definetely saw Net::LDAP in "most wanted modules" document! don't tell me now it's useless! :p

[19:58] <raschipi> Which do you guys prefer? LDAP or DNS?

[19:58] <timotimo> DNS kind of doesn't have any authentication, or does it?

[20:01] *** cokebot_ joined
[20:01] <cokebot_> is there a windows alternate to Terminal::ANSIColor ?

[20:01] <raschipi> Well, the authentication services are userDB-independent, as far as I know. It's possible to plug passwd as a backend, LDAP, DNS and others.

[20:01] <timotimo> there's ANSI.SYS

[20:01] <timotimo> i would probably not put my company telephone number database in DNS

[20:02] <cokebot_> looks like ansi.sys isn't 64 bit compatible.

[20:02] <Xliff> .oO( Did timotimo really go old-school with the mention of ANSI.SYS? )

[20:02] <Xliff> God! I haven't thought about that thing in ages!

[20:03] <cokebot_> eh. another reason for me to move this to a browser instead.

[20:03] <timotimo> isn't that how windows users get color in their command.com?

[20:03] <Xliff> Not anymore

[20:03] <timotimo> anyway, there is something on windows that can understand ansi escape codes

[20:04] <sena_kun> >===> Failed to find dependencies: Cro::Core

[20:04] *** cokebot_ left
[20:04] <sena_kun> erm, travis is very unhappy...

[20:04] <Xliff> command.com hasn't been a thing since ... well... Windows 7!

[20:04] <sena_kun> can someone do a test installation?

[20:04] <timotimo> AFAIK on windows if you want color you would open a handle on your current terminal that you're connected to and then in between print calls you would send an out-of-band command to the terminal to activate colors and stuff?

[20:04] <timotimo> Xliff: i know you could still use it on winXP

[20:05] <raschipi> Would the new Windows Terminal solve that problem? They announced it today, showed htop running on it, with colors.

[20:05] <timotimo> it was running inside tmux, even!

[20:05] <raschipi> https://github.com/Microsoft/Terminal

[20:06] <timotimo> i mean, the obvious solution would be to get Cygwin/X and xterm

[20:06] <timotimo> :P

[20:06] <raschipi> X.org works in WSL

[20:07] <timotimo> i'm speaking from my experience, which ended rather quickly after windows vista came out

[20:08] *** ufobat_ joined
[20:08] <raschipi> Now they only recommend installing IIS on Linux, to give you an idea.

[20:11] *** ufobat__ left
[20:13] <Woodi> sena_kun: re: LDAP: LDAPv3 protocol and StartTLS are important and I can't find it in code

[20:15] <sena_kun> Woodi, what do you mean by `LDAPv3`? I was originally implementing v3, no v2 is planned. As for StartTLS - yes, was on my roadmap for some time and I have some ideas about its implementation, though TLS stuff is often... fun. Can you open a ticket, please?

[20:16] * sena_kun goes afk for 30 minutes~

[20:19] <Woodi> sena_kun: found v3 in encoding.t...

[20:19] <Woodi> will try try ticket :)

[20:20] <sena_kun> Woodi, is v2 really so alive to explicitly mention it? v3 was published in 1997(oh, so we are the same age)

[20:22] *** leah2_ is now known as leah2

[20:26] *** raschipi left
[20:28] <Woodi> sena_kun: no, just v3. I asked becouse didn't see it anywhere.

[20:28] <sena_kun> Woodi, you can add a ticket like "Mention v3 in documentation". ;)

[20:30] <ugexe> all the tests fail like this for me

[20:30] <ugexe> ===SORRY!===

[20:30] <ugexe> Failed to open file /Users/ugexe/.zef/store/cro-ldap.git/1746da2ef5bc9aeb7d3d88894e3fbecee6dd3c01/Cro::LDAP::ASN::Plugin: No such file or directory

[20:31] <sena_kun> ugexe, you need to manually install https://github.com/Altai-man/cro-ldap-asn-plugin for now

[20:32] <sena_kun> probably Cro::LDAP::ASN::Plugin should be published to the ecosystem, since there is nothing deserving "not going to release it right now" status

[20:32] * sena_kun adds it to dependencies...

[20:33] <ugexe> that error still seems odd though

[20:33] <sena_kun> yes

[20:33] <ugexe> why is it trying to open a specific file for instance

[20:33] <Woodi> als can't find definition of Cro::LDAP::Message, where it is defined ?

[20:33] <sena_kun> well, it was not mentioned in "depends" in the first place

[20:33] <ugexe> i would expect 'Could not find Cro::LDAP::ASN::Plugin at line 1 in:'

[20:34] <sena_kun> Woodi, https://github.com/Altai-man/cro-ldap/blob/master/lib/Cro/LDAP/Types.pm6#L5 <- what file spawns the error with Cro::LDAP::Message?

[20:35] <Woodi> sena_kun: yes, just found

[20:36] <ugexe> Cro::LDAP::Test::MockServer is not in the META6.json data

[20:36] <sena_kun> ugexe, ugh, must it be?

[20:37] <Woodi> sena_kun: tickets done :)

[20:38] <ugexe> perl6 -I. t/01-basic.t etc won't work if you dont

[20:38] *** lucasb joined
[20:38] <Woodi> sena_kun: do that repo have client and server implementation ?

[20:39] <sena_kun> ugexe, indeed. I am always using `perl6 -Ilib`, not `perl6 -I.` and it works with the first way.

[20:39] <ugexe> if you want to include a test library that doesnt get installed then put it in t/lib and use `use lib $*PROGRAM.parent.add("lib");

[20:40] <sena_kun> Woodi, no server. Though there is a server stub you can "fill" with whatever implementation you want, but I don't plan to implementing a real ldap server, having a nice client is my main goal.

[20:40] <sena_kun> ugexe, thank you very much! _notes down_

[20:40] <ugexe> ah, the strange Failed to open file error is from ASN::META's runtime module loading, which makes a little more sense

[20:41] <sena_kun> a-a-ah, yes, ASN::META is pretty much... "fun" if you ask me.

[20:44] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:44] *** aborazmeh left
[20:44] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:55] *** llfourn joined
[21:01] *** llfourn left
[21:03] <kawaii> timotimo: ping!

[21:03] *** zakharyas left
[21:08] <kawaii> things are happening! https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/XfT5qtoJ/Screenshot%20from%202019-05-06%2022-07-45.png

[21:09] *** netrino joined
[21:10] *** aborazmeh left
[21:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 9ac8c2e2a5 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | doc/Language/setbagmix.pod6

[21:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Emphasize the semantics of set operators over Set/Bag/Mix

[21:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/9ac8c2e2a5

[21:10] *** hudo left
[21:16] *** Manifest0 left
[21:17] <kawaii> Oh, looks like I don't have push access to nqp

[21:17] <kawaii> AlexDaniel: 

[21:17] <kawaii> ping!

[21:18] <kawaii> looks like I may have to do the release tomorrow

[21:18] *** johnjohn101 left
[21:19] <AlexDaniel> ello

[21:20] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: ‚ÄúAlready in this organization‚Äù

[21:20] <kawaii> Yep I'm a member but get this when pushing `Permission to perl6/nqp.git denied to kawaii.`

[21:20] <sena_kun> 'night, #perl6. o/

[21:21] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: if you're using the sakefile, then the problem is that generated git repos have https link instead of ssh

[21:21] *** sena_kun left
[21:21] *** csr_ joined
[21:21] <kawaii> I think I'm a member of the org but a member of a subgroup with no write access

[21:21] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: if it is so (look at the actuall error message?), then it can be fixed by fixing the links in git configs

[21:21] <AlexDaniel> hmmmmmm

[21:21] <kawaii> From before when my CLA got signed

[21:21] *** csr_ left
[21:22] <kawaii> https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/brgvjWYa/Screenshot%20from%202019-05-06%2022-21-45.png

[21:22] *** Manifest0 joined
[21:22] <AlexDaniel> I see, I see‚Ä¶

[21:22] <AlexDaniel> so to write in nqp repo people should be in the core team?

[21:22] <kawaii> I think so

[21:23] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: fixed now

[21:24] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: but I also see no changelog and no announcement doc right now

[21:25] <AlexDaniel> at least that's not committed, and it should be before other stuff happens

[21:28] <kawaii> AlexDaniel: hmm I can't see a changelog wiki page for nqp like we have for rakudo

[21:28] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: yeah generally nqp changes are reflected in rakudo changelog if there's a good reason to, but I don't see a good reason to release nqp if rakudo prep is not done

[21:29] <AlexDaniel> the wiki page is just a way to let devs to log stuff quickly, the final version should be committed to rakudo repo

[21:29] <kawaii> yep understood, I'll prep rakudo's changelog tomorrow in that case since it's lengthy and late here

[21:29] *** llfourn joined
[21:30] <AlexDaniel> kawaii: take your time, yes. And maybe go through release guides once again to see if there's anything you missed https://github.com/perl6/nqp/blob/master/docs/release_guide.pod https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/docs/release_guide.pod

[21:30] <AlexDaniel> also, things change and maybe the release guide needs to be tweaked too

[21:34] *** llfourn left
[21:52] *** Manifest0 left
[21:53] *** raschipi joined
[21:56] *** Manifest0 joined
[22:03] *** llfourn joined
[22:09] *** llfourn left
[22:09] *** llfourn joined
[22:15] *** rindolf left
[22:39] <Xliff> m: my $a; $a.VAR.name.say

[22:39] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´$a‚ê§¬ª

[22:40] *** lucasb left
[22:42] *** reach_satori joined
[22:43] *** kotrcka left
[22:43] <Xliff> m: my $a = Str; $a.VAR.name.say

[22:43] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´$a‚ê§¬ª

[22:44] <Xliff> m: my $a = Str; .VAR.name.say for $a

[22:44] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´$a‚ê§¬ª

[22:44] <Xliff> m: my $a = Nil; .VAR.name.say for $a

[22:44] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´$a‚ê§¬ª

[22:48] <Xliff> sub a ($a) { say "Var: { $a.VAR.name }" }

[22:48] <Xliff> m: sub a ($a) { say "Var: { $a.VAR.name }" }; a

[22:48] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Calling a() will never work with declared signature ($a)‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3 a ($a) { say "Var: { $a.VAR.name }" }; 7‚èè5a‚ê§¬ª

[22:48] <Xliff> m: sub a ($a) { say "Var: { $a.VAR.name }" }; a(1)

[22:48] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´Use of Nil in string context‚ê§Var: ‚ê§  in sub a at <tmp> line 1‚ê§¬ª

[22:48] <Xliff> ^^ Is that a bug?

[22:49] <Xliff> m: sub a ($a, $b) { my $c; say "Var: { $a.VAR.name } / { $b.VAR.name } / { $c.VAR.name }" }; a(1)

[22:49] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Calling a(Int) will never work with declared signature ($a, $b)‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3/ { $b.VAR.name } / { $c.VAR.name }" }; 7‚èè5a(1)‚ê§¬ª

[22:50] <Xliff> m: sub a ($a, $b) { my $c; say "Var: { $a.VAR.name } / { $b.VAR.name } / { $c.VAR.name }" }; a(1, 1)

[22:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´Use of Nil in string context‚ê§Var:  /  / $c‚ê§  in sub a at <tmp> line 1‚ê§Use of Nil in string context‚ê§  in sub a at <tmp> line 1‚ê§¬ª

[22:50] <Xliff> ^^ Looks like a bug. Lexicals are fine, but parameter variables are not?

[22:50] *** sjn joined
[22:52] <raschipi> m: sub a ($a is raw) { say "Var: { $a.VAR.name }" }; a(1)

[22:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´No such method 'name' for invocant of type 'Int'. Did you mean any of these?‚ê§    base‚ê§    none‚ê§    note‚ê§    take‚ê§‚ê§  in sub a at <tmp> line 1‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[22:59] *** pecastro left
[23:06] *** kotrcka joined
[23:12] *** ToddAndMargo joined
[23:12] <ToddAndMargo> Anyone on Newbie duty?

[23:12] <yoleaux> 29 Apr 2019 21:58Z <b2gills> ToddAndMargo: Instead of `s/\/\/\//\/\//` You could do `s/  '///'  /{  '//'  }/`

[23:13] <ToddAndMargo> What am I doing wrong on ths regex? `$FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ '#' / no./;`   It ignores me

[23:15] <b2gills> m: my $FixedLine = 'abc#4 def#5'; $FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ '#' / no./; say $FixedLine

[23:15] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´abc no.4 def no.5‚ê§¬ª

[23:17] <ToddAndMargo> before: 050619A	D and H	RBC17	APC Replacement Battery Cartridge 17	1	$38.45

[23:17] <ToddAndMargo> after: 050619A	D and H	RBC17	APC Replacement Battery Cartridge #17	1	$38.45

[23:17] <ToddAndMargo> Soory.  Wrong before.  They are both the after

[23:20] <ToddAndMargo> actual lne looks like: 050619A\tD and H\tRBC17\tAPC Replacement Battery Cartridge #17\t1\t$38.45

[23:23] <b2gills> m: my $FixedLine = ‚Äú050619A\tD and H\tRBC17\tAPC Replacement Battery Cartridge #17\t1\t$38.45‚Äù; $FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ '#' / no./; say $FixedLine

[23:23] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´Use of Nil in string context‚ê§050619A    D and H RBC17   APC Replacement Battery Cartridge  no.17        1       .45‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§¬ª

[23:26] *** Sgeo_ joined
[23:27] <ToddAndMargo> This works, so I am at a loss: p6 'my $x="ab\tc#d\tef\t"; say $x; $x~~s/"\#"/ no./; say $x;'

[23:27] *** MilkmanDan left
[23:28] <timotimo> ToddAndMargo: with one-liners on the terminal, you'll always have to amke sure escaping works the way you expect it to, the \#, who knows if the shell eats the \ or passes it on to perl6

[23:29] *** MilkmanDan joined
[23:29] <raschipi> my $FixedLine = '050619A\tD and H\tRBC17\tAPC Replacement Battery Cartridge \#17\t1\t$38.45'; $FixedLine ~~ s:global/ '#' / no./;say $FixedLine

[23:29] <evalable6> raschipi, rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´050619A\tD and H\tRBC17\tAPC Replacement Battery Cartridge \ no.17\t1\t$38.45‚ê§¬ª

[23:30] *** Sgeo left
[23:30] <ToddAndMargo> And guess what just decided to start working perfectly.  I didn't do anything!

[23:30] <timotimo> if the replacement is so simple, why not just .subst with strings?

[23:31] *** mowcat left
[23:32] <ToddAndMargo> checking

[23:32] <ToddAndMargo> was using: $FixedLine   ~~ m/(.*?)\t(.*?)\t(.*?)\t(.*?)\t(.*?)\t(.*)/;

[23:33] <timotimo> that looks like you want to .split("\t")

[23:33] <timotimo> with a limit on the number of splits, which is the second argument to split

[23:34] <ToddAndMargo> https://docs.perl6.org/routine/subst    does not look understandable to me.  don't think it applies either

[23:34] <ToddAndMargo> I will try split

[23:35] <timotimo> i thought you were replacing a # with a no.

[23:36] <ToddAndMargo>         $FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ '"' / inch/;    # Note quotes screw the the parsing up         $FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ "\'" / feet/;   # Note quotes screw the the parsing up         $FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ '#' / no./;     # Note "#" screws the the parsing up         $FixedLine   ~~ s:global/ '*' /x/;        # Note "*" screws the the parsing up

[23:36] <ToddAndMargo> yes

[23:37] <ToddAndMargo> how do I collect up $1, $2, etc with split?

[23:37] *** MidCheck joined
[23:37] <timotimo> the trans method can also help you for that

[23:37] <ToddAndMargo> what is trans?

[23:38] <timotimo> m: say q[50" 9' #123 100*5].trans(['"', "'", "#", "*"] => [" inch", " feet", " no.", "x"])

[23:38] <camelia> rakudo-moar b0dd44b00: OUTPUT: ¬´50 inch 9 feet  no.123 100x5‚ê§¬ª

[23:41] <ToddAndMargo> All in one!  Easy on the eyes too!

[23:44] <ToddAndMargo> And the translation is no longer working either.   But the # stopped screwing up the m/.  This is like nailing jellow to a wall!

[23:46] <ToddAndMargo> Did I goof this?  $FixedLine.trans(['"', "'", "#", "*"] => [" inch", " feet", " no.", "x"]);

[23:46] <timotimo> it returns the result, so you need to assign

[23:46] <ToddAndMargo> It acts like there is a comment sign in front of it

[23:46] <timotimo> i.e. $FixedLine .= trans(...)

[23:48] <ToddAndMargo> Ah.  Short between the headsets  $FixedLine = $FixedLine.trans(['"', "'", "#", "*"] => [" inch", " feet", " no.", "x"]);

[23:50] <ToddAndMargo> ".=" give me   No such method 'CALL-ME' for invocant of type 'Str'

[23:51] <ToddAndMargo> before: 050619A	D and H	abc	12"34' #17 *3	1	$1.00

[23:51] <ToddAndMargo> After: 050619A	D and H	abc	12 inch34 feet  no.17 x3	1	$1.00

[23:52] <ToddAndMargo> Just went back to "=" and now it is working again.  Didn't before when I used "=".   Where is that jello?

[23:52] <timotimo> you forgot to put trans after .= maybe?

[23:52] <timotimo> oh

[23:53] <timotimo> you put another $FixedLine after the .= probably

[23:55] *** cpage_ joined
[23:55] *** cpage left
[23:55] *** cpage_ is now known as cpage

[23:57] <ToddAndMargo> Just one.  First I used "=", then I tried ".=", then I removed the ".".  Jello!

[23:59] <ToddAndMargo> I wonder if th is is an issue with Jeany.  Seems that since upgrading from Fedora 29 to 30, I have to press the save icon several times, even when it is grayed out.  That would explain the jello!

[23:59] <ToddAndMargo> <ctrl><S><ctrl><S><ctrl><S><ctrl><S><ctrl><S>

[23:59] <timotimo> i'm not sure what you mean by that

