[00:00] *** gfldex left
[00:02] <hankache> m: say $*KERNEL.bits;

[00:02] <camelia> rakudo-moar a1591fbe2: OUTPUT: ¬´64‚ê§¬ª

[00:05] *** Cabanoss- left
[00:08] <AlexDaniel> hankache: so what's the situation with star? I see that there are some commits, but who is running the show? IIRC clarkema also wanted to participate, what's the current status?

[00:09] <hankache> AlexDaniel: I just uploaded a release candidate http://www.hankache.com/rakudostar/

[00:09] <El_Che> I saw a ticket where 2 people volunteered to do it as a team

[00:09] <El_Che> hankache included :)

[00:10] <El_Che> hankache++

[00:10] <AlexDaniel> yeah but I'm not seeing a team so that's why I'm wondering

[00:11] <AlexDaniel> hankache: that's an http link and the archive has no signature

[00:11] *** pecastro left
[00:11] <AlexDaniel> same for msi of course

[00:12] <AlexDaniel> ah, it's available through https also, so it's less horrible :)

[00:14] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:14] *** cpan-p6 joined
[00:15] <hankache> $*KERNEL is behaving weirdly on Windows

[00:16] *** Cabanossi joined
[00:17] *** hphhphhphhphhph joined
[00:18] *** pmurias left
[00:20] *** hankache left
[00:21] <drclaw2> Random thought here... Quoting Constructs and the available adverbs are a sweet feature!

[00:23] <AlexDaniel> yes :)

[00:26] *** ufobat_ joined
[00:28] <Kaiepi> they're great but i can never remember them

[00:29] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[00:30] *** ufobat left
[00:33] *** lucasb left
[00:45] *** MidCheck joined
[00:53] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:53] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:01] <Kaiepi> what does the raw trait do?

[01:03] <timotimo> it's a bit like "is rw", but it doesn't require something writable

[01:03] <timotimo> it's the same as using a sigil-less variable

[01:06] *** molaf joined
[01:18] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:18] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:27] *** lizmat_ joined
[01:27] *** woolfy1 joined
[01:30] *** woolfy left
[01:30] *** lizmat left
[01:32] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:32] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:38] *** drclaw2 left
[01:40] <Kaiepi> timotimo, on methods?

[01:47] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:47] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:53] *** netrino left
[02:05] *** molaf left
[02:09] <Kaiepi> m: say $*KERNEL.^methods

[02:09] <camelia> rakudo-moar a1591fbe2: OUTPUT: ¬´(BUILD name version release hardware arch archname bits hostname signals signal cpu-cores cpu-usage endian Str gist auth signature desc BUILDALL)‚ê§¬ª

[02:09] *** cpan-p6 left
[02:09] <Kaiepi> no way to get the free/total memory on the system?

[02:09] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:09] <Kaiepi> i don't think it'd be too difficult to implement

[02:18] *** molaf joined
[02:18] *** lizmat joined
[02:19] *** woolfy joined
[02:19] <MasterDuke> Kaiepi: https://docs.perl6.org/type/Telemetry might have something

[02:21] *** woolfy1 left
[02:22] *** lizmat_ left
[02:22] *** Kaiepi left
[02:30] *** zacts joined
[02:32] *** cpan-p6 left
[02:33] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:39] *** kurahaupo left
[02:39] *** kurahaupo joined
[02:39] *** kurahaupo left
[02:41] *** kurahaupo joined
[02:43] *** drclaw2 joined
[02:54] *** MidCheck left
[02:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[02:57] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:58] *** drclaw2 left
[03:03] *** molaf left
[03:05] *** zacts left
[03:12] *** zacts joined
[03:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[03:16] *** molaf joined
[03:16] *** hphhphhphhphhph left
[03:24] *** drclaw2 joined
[03:25] *** cpan-p6 joined
[03:27] *** AlexDani` joined
[03:27] *** molaf left
[03:29] *** AlexDaniel left
[03:40] *** bb01100100 joined
[03:42] *** zacts left
[03:50] *** bb01100100 left
[03:51] *** cpan-p6 left
[03:51] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:05] *** TreyHarris left
[04:05] *** zacts joined
[04:07] *** zacts left
[04:11] *** drclaw2 left
[04:18] *** ferreira left
[04:18] *** TreyHarris joined
[04:20] *** Kaiepi joined
[04:20] *** xinming joined
[04:23] *** xinming_ left
[04:26] *** lizmat left
[04:27] *** drclaw2 joined
[04:40] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:55] *** Cabanossi left
[05:02] *** Cabanossi joined
[05:05] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:05] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:08] *** drclaw2 left
[05:12] *** bb01100100 joined
[05:20] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:21] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:23] *** MasterDuke left
[05:29] *** bb01100100 left
[05:39] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:45] *** donkey joined
[05:45] *** donkey left
[05:46] *** kurahaupo left
[05:50] *** bb01100100 joined
[05:52] <xinming> m: sub test (DateTime $arg .= new(now)) { }

[05:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Malformed parameter‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3sub test (DateTime $arg7‚èè5 .= new(now)) { }‚ê§    expecting any of:‚ê§        constraint‚ê§¬ª

[05:52] <xinming> Can we make .=    so it can work in sub signatures. :-)

[05:52] <xinming> This is a good feature to have IMHO. -)

[05:53] *** ToddAndMargo joined
[05:53] <ToddAndMargo> Newbie question: how do I output data to a printer on /dev/lp0 (LPT1)?

[05:55] *** MidCheck joined
[05:56] *** bb01100100 left
[06:00] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:03] *** bb01100100 joined
[06:03] <xinming> ToddAndMargo: Can you direct output to /dev/lp0 in bash?

[06:03] <xinming> If so, You can just  '/dev/lp0'.IO.spurt "data";

[06:03] <xinming> If so, You can just  '/dev/lp0'.IO.spurt $data;

[06:07] *** bb01100100 left
[06:11] *** Kaiepi left
[06:12] *** Kaiepi joined
[06:14] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:14] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:16] *** wi15ht joined
[06:18] *** w17t left
[06:25] <ToddAndMargo> Will try it.  Thank you!

[06:27] *** dhyan_nataraj joined
[06:27] <ToddAndMargo> p6 '"/dev/lp0".IO.spurt( "abc"~chr(12) );'  Hangs, but I am currntly having an issue with  the kernel and lp0

[06:38] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:38] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:42] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[06:50] *** Alchemy joined
[06:50] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:52] *** obfusk_ joined
[06:53] *** hoelzro_ joined
[06:57] *** obfusk left
[06:57] *** hoelzro left
[06:57] *** synopsebot left
[06:57] *** daemon left
[06:57] *** skaji left
[06:57] *** spacebat1 left
[06:57] *** tailgate left
[06:58] *** Alchemy is now known as daemon

[07:01] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:01] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:04] *** ToddAndMargo left
[07:06] *** rindolf joined
[07:09] *** obfusk_ left
[07:10] *** obfusk joined
[07:15] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:15] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:32] *** ufobat_ left
[07:33] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:33] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:45] *** jmerelo joined
[07:50] *** chee left
[07:55] *** chee joined
[07:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:57] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:57] *** zakharyas joined
[08:18] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:19] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:34] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:34] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:39] *** pecastro joined
[08:41] *** lizmat joined
[08:53] *** lizmat left
[08:59] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:05] *** woolfy left
[09:12] *** reach_satori joined
[09:13] *** kurahaupo left
[09:14] *** kurahaupo joined
[09:15] *** zakharyas left
[09:22] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:23] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:30] *** kurahaupo left
[09:31] *** kurahaupo joined
[09:31] *** kurahaupo left
[09:33] *** kurahaupo joined
[09:40] *** bb01100100 joined
[09:40] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:41] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:55] *** dhyan_nataraj left
[09:55] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:55] *** dhyan_nataraj joined
[09:55] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:55] *** dhyan_nataraj left
[10:15] *** MidCheck left
[10:16] *** drclaw2 joined
[10:16] *** bb01100100 left
[10:18] *** cpan-p6 left
[10:19] *** cpan-p6 joined
[10:21] *** kaiser joined
[10:23] *** rindolf left
[10:24] *** netrino joined
[10:27] *** kaiser left
[10:28] *** rindolf joined
[10:35] *** drclaw2 left
[10:37] *** cpan-p6 left
[10:38] *** ravenousmoose joined
[10:41] *** cpan-p6 joined
[10:43] *** drclaw2 joined
[10:45] <tbrowder> \o #perl6

[10:49] <tbrowder> i believe the 'tc' (title case) routine is lacking expected behavior. that is, it upper cases the first letter, but it does not lower-case the rest of the string. i believe it should, or at least have an adverb to allow that behavior.

[10:52] <tbrowder> otherwise, one has to use 'lc' and then 'tc' on incoming strings to ensure true title case outcomes.

[10:52] <timotimo> you want the tclc method then

[10:53] <timotimo> m: say "HeLlO wOrLd".tclc

[10:53] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´Hello world‚ê§¬ª

[10:55] <jmerelo> hi, tbrowder

[10:55] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: df3036711d | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/IO/Handle.pod6

[10:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Provides example for READ and EOF, closes #2653

[10:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/df3036711d

[10:57] <tbrowder> jmerelo: hi

[10:57] <tbrowder> timotimo: thnx, not aware of that!

[11:03] <tbrowder> though i think a better solution would be the default behavior to be tclc and have an adverb for the current behavior which doesn't seem natural, at least in languages i'm familiar with.

[11:03] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:04] *** bb01100100 joined
[11:04] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:05] <tbrowder> but on the other hand, i'm thinking of single words, so the current behavior i have to admit IS correct.

[11:08] <tbrowder> so, applying one of my simple rules of life: if you don't learn something new about p6 every day, you're just not paying attention!

[11:09] *** stmuk_ joined
[11:10] <stmuk_> .tell hankache that star RC looks great.  I just tried it on FreeBSD 11 and it worked fine. 

[11:10] <yoleaux> stmuk_: I'll pass your message to hankache.

[11:10] <stmuk_> hankache++

[11:10] *** stmuk_ left
[11:15] *** pmurias joined
[11:16] <pmurias> tbrowder: changing existing method behavior is not something to be done lightly ;)

[11:16] <yoleaux> 8 Mar 2019 23:17Z <MasterDuke> pmurias: it's a P6num (not surprisingly)

[11:16] <tbrowder> pmurias: roger!!

[11:18] <tbrowder> i am continually amazed at the genius that was applied in creating p6! that was an intense 15 years!

[11:20] *** molaf joined
[11:30] *** Black_Ribbon left
[11:32] *** skaji joined
[11:44] *** drclaw2 left
[11:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:50] *** bb01100100 left
[11:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:50] *** drclaw2 joined
[11:58] *** tailgate joined
[11:58] *** spacebat1 joined
[12:04] *** ravenousmoose left
[12:05] *** lucasb joined
[12:06] *** ravenousmoose joined
[12:11] *** cpan-p6 left
[12:12] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:26] *** cpan-p6 left
[12:27] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:28] *** kurahaupo left
[12:28] *** kurahaupo joined
[12:30] *** zacts joined
[12:31] *** zacts left
[12:31] *** zacts joined
[12:32] *** lucasb left
[12:32] *** lucasb joined
[12:36] *** drclaw2 left
[12:44] *** AlexDaniel left
[12:44] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[12:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[12:50] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:51] *** ravenousmoose left
[12:53] *** ravenousmoose joined
[12:59] *** netrino left
[13:03] *** zacts left
[13:04] *** zacts joined
[13:04] *** cpan-p6 left
[13:04] *** cpan-p6 joined
[13:05] *** natrys joined
[13:14] *** netrino joined
[13:14] *** netrino left
[13:16] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: f65fbc76ca | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/IO/Handle.pod6

[13:16] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: More info for #2653

[13:16] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/f65fbc76ca

[13:17] *** ravenousmoose left
[13:23] *** chee left
[13:23] *** ravenousmoose joined
[13:25] *** chee joined
[13:28] *** cpan-p6 left
[13:28] *** cpan-p6 joined
[13:29] *** imcsk8 left
[13:31] *** imcsk8 joined
[13:31] *** jmerelo left
[13:33] *** AlexDaniel joined
[13:35] *** Skarsnik joined
[13:35] *** andrzejku joined
[13:38] *** wi15ht left
[13:50] *** hphhphhphhph joined
[13:53] *** cpan-p6 left
[13:53] *** cpan-p6 joined
[13:54] *** pmurias left
[14:06] *** Black_Ribbon left
[14:09] *** ravenousmoose left
[14:10] *** pmurias joined
[14:29] <Skarsnik> Hello there

[14:30] <timotimo> greetings

[14:31] *** ravenousmoose joined
[14:34] <El_Che> seasonal?

[14:35] *** zacts left
[14:35] *** sena_kun joined
[14:37] *** cpan-p6 left
[14:38] *** cpan-p6 joined
[14:40] *** w17t joined
[14:41] <timotimo> seasoned, spicy greetings

[14:41] <SmokeMachine> any idea of how I set the sdk on comma? `14:38	Error running 'Tests': SDK is not set`

[14:42] <andrzejku> timotimo, can you respond me?

[14:42] <timotimo> i thought since everything works now we're fine?

[14:43] <andrzejku> timotimo, nop I am making kind of clean up in my rakudo package

[14:44] <andrzejku> and I am not totally sure why there so many trash

[14:44] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, "File -> Project Settings"

[14:44] <timotimo>  have you tried my strace advice?

[14:44] <andrzejku> especially empty directories and precomp files

[14:44] <andrzejku> timotimo, I just remove them :D

[14:44] <andrzejku> timotimo, it is still working but question is

[14:45] <andrzejku> for how long

[14:46] <andrzejku> it looked like that default perl6 rakudo install path tree is created to handle also packages

[14:47] <andrzejku> you can have packages in ~/.perl6

[14:47] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, oops, actually right command is "Project Structure", not settings.

[14:47] <andrzejku> and in your root dir

[14:49] <andrzejku> timotimo, for me rakudo looks like that https://pastebin.com/9eH2a5q8

[14:49] <andrzejku> after clean up

[14:53] <SmokeMachine> Should it be ~/.rakudobrew/bin?

[14:54] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, yup.

[14:54] <timotimo> i've dealt with this stuff too little to really help you out with that :(

[14:54] <SmokeMachine> https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/8PSd3K7n/1552229664.JPG

[14:54] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, it just looks for where you have perl6 in your PATH.

[14:55] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, sigh, that's an annoying bug. Can you try to delete `.idea` folder from your project directory and then "Import" it?

[14:56] <sena_kun> It is pretty rare to show up and the harder to debug, but with new users we are seeing it more often now. :|

[14:59] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: it worked! thanks!

[15:00] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, np. you can ping me whenever I'm around(which is, well, not so rare here). :)

[15:00] <andrzejku> timotimo, do you know to which package NativeCall belongs?

[15:01] <andrzejku> timotimo, nqp?

[15:01] <sena_kun> it is a part of rakudo internals afaik.

[15:01] <sena_kun> https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/tree/master/lib/NativeCall <-

[15:03] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: is there a way to run only 1 specific test file?

[15:04] <andrzejku> no shit :D

[15:04] <timotimo> SmokeMachine: yes, with "make t/spec/foobar/....t"

[15:04] <andrzejku> so if I call use

[15:04] <andrzejku> then perl6 is looking for the NativeCall.mp6

[15:04] <timotimo> not exactly

[15:05] <timotimo> the file could be named very differently

[15:05] <timotimo> also, first it will look for a precompiled version

[15:05] <andrzejku> :O

[15:05] <andrzejku> ok now I start to understand why those precompiled files exist

[15:05] <SmokeMachine> timotimo: do you mean on rakudo, right? Im meaning on comma...

[15:05] <timotimo> oh sorry

[15:06] <timotimo> i would expect you can do it by right-clicking on the test file

[15:06] <SmokeMachine> np

[15:06] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, not yet. But you can make test execution concurrent to make it faster. I'd like to implement it soon though, as it is pretty annoying sometimes for me too.

[15:07] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: thanks...

[15:07] <andrzejku> how do we resolve precompile versions?

[15:07] <andrzejku> it is just binary file

[15:08] <timotimo> the infrastructure for resolving precompiled and installed stuff is pluggable

[15:10] <andrzejku> now I start to understand why we needed those precomp

[15:10] <andrzejku> zef is working for me :D

[15:12] <andrzejku> so the default path for package managers is .perl6

[15:12] <andrzejku> but rakudo has it is own package manager

[15:12] <andrzejku> kind of

[15:12] <andrzejku> which is in its root lib directory

[15:12] <andrzejku> to manage some basic libs like nativecall

[15:12] <timotimo> zef uses the implementation of CompUnitRepository to actually install stuff

[15:13] <timotimo> and rakudo also uses that with install_core_dists or what it's called

[15:13] <andrzejku> timotimo, I am curious why we don't separate interpreter staff and package manager

[15:13] <andrzejku> to include native call and unit tests into nqp

[15:14] <andrzejku> or moarvm

[15:14] <timotimo> native call unit tests are already in nqp

[15:14] <timotimo> and also other unit tests

[15:16] <andrzejku> timotimo, but they are part of rakudo too

[15:17] <andrzejku> https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/tree/master/lib

[15:19] <timotimo> i don't think writing nativecall in nqp would be much fun

[15:21] <timotimo> i'm not sure i understand what you mean by having nativecall in nqp

[15:23] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:23] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:28] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[15:37] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:37] *** yqt joined
[15:37] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:38] <andrzejku> timotimo, well anyway I am happy that it is working

[15:38] <andrzejku> going to push it :D

[15:51] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:51] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:52] *** sno left
[15:55] *** sno joined
[15:56] *** zacts joined
[16:01] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[16:04] *** kurahaupo left
[16:07] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:07] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:09] <andrzejku> okay now I must wait for review

[16:09] <andrzejku> :)

[16:10] *** jmerelo joined
[16:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: ec9bc74752 | (Juan Juli√°n Merelo Guerv√≥s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[16:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: Releases old version (compatible with 6.c)

[16:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: 

[16:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: As a different module for back-compatibility.

[16:18] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/ec9bc74752

[16:18] <jmerelo> .tell AlexDaniel Released as instructed.

[16:18] <yoleaux> jmerelo: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[16:21] <AlexDaniel> .

[16:21] <yoleaux> 16:18Z <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: Released as instructed.

[16:22] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: now if you get rakudo 2018.10 and try to install that module, is it going to work?

[16:22] <AlexDaniel> if not, then no good

[16:23] <AlexDaniel> and I don't think that it will, I think I said that in the comment?

[16:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 6ab6dd3b17 | cfa++ | xt/code.pws

[16:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Spelling (whitelist).

[16:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/6ab6dd3b17

[16:25] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: well, it will work as long as you change the version.

[16:26] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: b3480e1ccd | cfa++ | xt/code.pws

[16:26] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Spelling (fix: lowercase whitelisted words).

[16:26] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b3480e1ccd

[16:26] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: what does that mean

[16:26] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: if I'm installing a module that depends on it, is it going to work?

[16:27] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: In Spain we call this "a case of bandaid before the booboo". Nobody has complained about that, and we are saying they might. 

[16:27] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: again, you can always set the version to 1.001001. It's the self same code.

[16:28] <AlexDaniel> luckily that's not the standard that we used for rakudo releases‚Ä¶

[16:28] <AlexDaniel> break things intentionally without a good reason and then wait for people to complain

[16:28] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: and again, I'm using 6.d features which are documented _and_ spec. This might be the first case of this, but I'm sure it will not be the last.

[16:29] <AlexDaniel> yes but you just defenestrated a perfectly usable module

[16:29] <AlexDaniel> and made it v6.d-only

[16:29] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: no I didn't. I forked it, with two versions, one of which works only with 6.c, another one which works perfectly with 6.d

[16:30] <AlexDaniel> ‚Ä¶

[16:30] <AlexDaniel> by the way

[16:30] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:30] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I have followed every suggestion you have done, up to and including this release. If you have any other suggestion that does not involve seeing every single instance of doc tests failing, I'm all ears

[16:30] <AlexDaniel> if you add `use v6.c` in the module, is it going to fix it?

[16:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:31] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I can check...

[16:31] *** cfa joined
[16:31] <cfa> üëãüèΩ

[16:32] <AlexDaniel> o/

[16:32] <cfa> anyone having issues with 2019.03 and readline?

[16:32] <cfa> i'm not getting any recorded repl history (in ~/.perl6) 

[16:32] <cfa> and i've had readline crash a number of times with an "Internal error: unhandled encoding"

[16:32] <jmerelo> cfa: he

[16:32] <cfa> hey jmerelo, AlexDaniel 

[16:33] <jmerelo> cfa: that's the "say optimization" striking back again.

[16:33] *** domidumont joined
[16:33] <AlexDaniel> cfa: is it 2019.03 or master?

[16:33] <cfa> 2019.03

[16:33] <cfa> installed with rakudup so it's possible i have some cruft lying around

[16:34] <jmerelo> cfa: checking

[16:34] <jmerelo> cfa: it happens whatever you do?

[16:34] <AlexDaniel> can you double check with perl6 --version ?

[16:34] <cfa> This is Rakudo version 2019.03 built on MoarVM version 2019.03

[16:34] <AlexDaniel> uhhh

[16:35] <cfa> if the answer to my question is 'no', i'll try nuking my installation dirs and reinstalling afresh

[16:35] <cfa> this is on macos fwiw

[16:36] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: Just checked with use v6.c. Does not work. So we'll have to make do with two versions.

[16:36] <AlexDaniel> no

[16:36] <AlexDaniel> we will revert the change that makes no sense right now, and then we can think again‚Ä¶

[16:36] <jmerelo> cfa: how can we reproduce the error?

[16:37] <cfa> jmerelo: it's intermittent, which is the problem

[16:37] <cfa> jmerelo: 'using the repl for a bit' is the closest account i can give

[16:37] <cfa> this was frustrating yesterday because it interrupted work

[16:37] <cfa> (repl state and history lost seemingly at random)

[16:38] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: fwiw say optimization is not in 2018.03, so it can't be it

[16:38] <cfa> but history isn't stored at all, atm

[16:38] <cfa> i'm going to nuke ~/.rakudup and ~/.perl6 and reinstall now

[16:38] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: then "say optimization" is not to blame either for the Test::Output problem. I'm using the same version as cfa

[16:38] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: THAT IS CORRECT

[16:39] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: the fix that you did in the module is specifically for rakudo master

[16:39] <AlexDaniel> there were no releases so far that'd have an issue with that module

[16:40] <AlexDaniel> and yet you broke it for all releases in this range: 2015.12 ‚Ä¶ 2018.10

[16:40] <AlexDaniel> c: 2018.10 say $*PERL

[16:40] * cfa ‚ò¢Ô∏è

[16:41] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¬¶2018.10: ¬´Perl 6 (6.c)‚ê§¬ª

[16:41] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: *including* rakudo star

[16:41] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: again, I'm using 6.d spec. 

[16:41] <AlexDaniel> which didn't yet have a v6.d release

[16:42] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK, let me know if this is acceptable: just forking Test::Output to Test::Output::D and using that in my Pod::Load.

[16:42] <AlexDaniel> no

[16:42] <AlexDaniel> there are 12 modules that depend on Test::Output

[16:42] <cfa> meanwhile, oops ~ env: perl6: No such file or directory

[16:43] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I'm going to leave Test::Output just the way it was and just change Pod::Load to use Test::Output::D What's the problem with that?

[16:43] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:43] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: 12 modules are not going to work

[16:44] <Skarsnik> AlexDanielable, hello

[16:44] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:44] <AlexDaniel> ok, maybe 11 because you're fixing one?

[16:44] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I think I'm missing something here. I am going to *revert* the changes I have made, and create a new module with a new name that will not fail with the new version

[16:44] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: aaaaaah‚Ä¶ ok I'm misunderstanding

[16:45] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: but what's up with Pod::Load exactly?

[16:45] <cfa> hmm, still no history

[16:46] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: It's not Pod::Load itself. It's that one of the two Travis tests for the documentation use rakudo master, and it was failing all the time.

[16:46] <jmerelo> Test::Output is used by Pod::Load which is used by several Pod::to::xyz

[16:47] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: nah that's ugly. Maybe a less ugly hack is to check the rakudo version?

[16:47] <AlexDaniel> still not pretty, but that's going to work

[16:47] <AlexDaniel> c: 2018.10,HEAD say $*PERL.compiler.version > 2019.03

[16:47] <committable6> AlexDaniel, https://gist.github.com/38a9957e12123ab174b907228064ad6b

[16:47] <AlexDaniel> c: 2018.10,HEAD say $*PERL.compiler.version > v2019.03

[16:47] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¬¶2018.10: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª ¬¶HEAD(6e8df01): ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[16:47] <AlexDaniel> c: 2018.10,2019.03,HEAD say $*PERL.compiler.version > v2019.03

[16:47] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¬¶2018.10,2019.03: ¬´False‚ê§¬ª ¬¶HEAD(6e8df01): ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[16:48] *** andrzejku left
[16:48] <AlexDaniel> I mean, this is horrible, but less horrible than anything that was proposed so far‚Ä¶

[16:48] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I'd have to hack the metaclass, since the solution is to use different methods.

[16:48] <AlexDaniel> mmm

[16:49] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ok what about reverting that commit‚Ä¶

[16:49] <AlexDaniel> in rakudo

[16:49] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: no, don't do that.

[16:49] <jmerelo> Why would you?

[16:50] <jmerelo> It's just a simple change in a single module, Pod::Load. No big deal

[16:50] <AlexDaniel> it's an optimization commit that breaks at least one module

[16:51] *** MasterDuke joined
[16:51] *** MasterDuke left
[16:51] *** MasterDuke joined
[16:53] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK, just checked and *both* work with 2019.03

[16:53] <AlexDaniel> that's correct

[16:54] *** rindolf left
[16:55] <jmerelo> Maybe release two files instead of two versions?

[16:55] <jmerelo> Ok,no, two versions. It's not big deal.

[16:55] <AlexDaniel> no. It is a big deal

[16:55] <AlexDaniel> imagine being a user using the latest recommended version

[16:55] <AlexDaniel> and the module doesn't freaking work

[16:56] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: really, Alex. I already said I was reverting the change.

[16:56] <cfa> jmerelo: so, are you getting readline history with .03?

[16:56] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ok now I don't know what you're going to do :)

[16:57] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:58] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:02] *** ravenousmoose left
[17:04] *** rindolf joined
[17:05] *** andrzejku joined
[17:08] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: first, revert current changes

[17:08] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: second, two options. Create two different modules, Test::Output and Test::Output::D and release them as different. I would use the second for Pod::Load

[17:09] <AlexDaniel> don't do that

[17:09] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: second option, leave just one module, Test::Output, but two different files, Test/Output/D.pm6 which would be one I would use.

[17:09] <AlexDaniel> because once 2019.04/05 is released, 12 modules will break

[17:10] <AlexDaniel> we have to fix Test::Output or revert the change in rakudo

[17:10] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: as in fix it in a way that's compatible with 6.d and 6.c

[17:10] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: yeah

[17:11] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I have tried to just leave the TWEAK for the encoding instead of creating a new WRITE and that does not work.

[17:11] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: and as I said, fixing that was _way_ above my pay grade. It was difficult enough to find a fix that worked with current HEAD.

[17:11] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:12] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: so what you suggest is to create a class that uses one method if it's below 2019.03 and another if it's not.

[17:12] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:12] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I don't think the TWEAK will hurt, so it's only the method.

[17:13] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: we can use MONKEY-TYPING https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34504849/how-do-you-add-a-method-to-an-existing-class-in-perl-6

[17:14] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: maybe decorate with different roles depending on the version https://stackoverflow.com/a/44509701/891440

[17:14] *** |oLa| joined
[17:15] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: or maybe wait for a resolution in https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2751

[17:15] <AlexDaniel> it's possible that it's no the only module with that issue

[17:15] <AlexDaniel> not*

[17:16] <xinming> When in supply, are the taps run in order or they are running in parallel?

[17:16] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: but meanwhile... Revert, right? And just make do with the Travis errors.

[17:16] <AlexDaniel> yeah

[17:16] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK

[17:17] *** ravenousmoose joined
[17:18] <xinming> Anyone here tells me wether the $supply.tap(&tap1);  $supply.tap(&tap2)    are tap1 and tap2 different ones?

[17:18] <xinming> I mean, are they running in parallel, or tap2 will be run after tap1 is processed.

[17:21] <AlexDaniel> m: Supply.interval(1).tap({say ‚Äòin one‚Äô; sleep 1; say ‚Äòdone‚Äô}); Supply.interval(1).tap({say ‚Äòin two‚Äô; sleep 1; say ‚Äòdone‚Äô}); sleep 1.5

[17:21] <AlexDaniel>  

[17:21] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´in one‚ê§in two‚ê§done‚ê§in one‚ê§done‚ê§in two‚ê§¬ª

[17:21] <AlexDaniel> xini in parallel

[17:21] <AlexDaniel> xinming: in parallel

[17:21] <xinming> Ok, Thanks.

[17:21] <xinming> Then, I'll need lock.

[17:21] <AlexDaniel> xinming: you can use `react` block

[17:22] <AlexDaniel> m: react { whenever Supply.interval(1) {say ‚Äòin one‚Äô; sleep 1; say ‚Äòdone‚Äô}; whenever Supply.interval(1) {say ‚Äòin two‚Äô; sleep 1; say ‚Äòdone‚Äô}; whenever Promise.in(1.5) { done } }

[17:22] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´in one‚ê§done‚ê§in two‚ê§done‚ê§in one‚ê§done‚ê§¬ª

[17:22] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK, done.

[17:22] <xinming> I still need some think to get how to fix that.

[17:22] <cfa> hmm, meanwhile the same input caused a crash one run and nothing the next

[17:22] <xinming> m: sub test (DateTime $arg .= new(now)) { }

[17:22] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Malformed parameter‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3sub test (DateTime $arg7‚èè5 .= new(now)) { }‚ê§    expecting any of:‚ê§        constraint‚ê§¬ª

[17:23] <xinming> AlexDaniel: Do you think make .= for default arg is a good idea?

[17:23] <xinming> I know we can do    something like   sub test (DateTime $arg = DateTime.new(now)) { }

[17:23] <xinming> But I think it'll be good that .= can work with  =   :-)

[17:23] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: 69c4c703b0 | (Juan Juli√°n Merelo Guerv√≥s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | META.list

[17:23] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: Reverts adding of fork.

[17:23] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: 

[17:23] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: To leave just the only Test::Output.

[17:23] <Geth> ¬¶ ecosystem: review: https://github.com/perl6/ecosystem/commit/69c4c703b0

[17:24] <cfa> https://gist.github.com/cfa/927b73262d8ef44e04909968760f9d69

[17:24] <AlexDaniel> xinming: I don't know, it's hard to tell

[17:25] <jmerelo> cfa: wow

[17:25] <cfa> hmm, and touching (thereby creating) ~/.perl6/rakudo-history means that history is recorded again

[17:25] <cfa> yeah, this isn't being created if absent

[17:25] <cfa> so there're two separate issues

[17:26] <cfa> one is this encoding crash, the other creation of the history file

[17:26] <cfa> jmerelo: can you test the latter?   mv ~/.perl6/rakudo-history{,.bak}

[17:26] <cfa> then try

[17:26] <jmerelo> cfa: you sure it's Readline? Might be the plain REPL

[17:28] <cfa> yes, it's readline

[17:28] <jmerelo> cfa: I've moved the history file and done that lin several times and no problem

[17:28] <cfa> the history file is recreated?

[17:28] <jmerelo> cfa: Ah, let me see

[17:28] *** denix13_ joined
[17:29] <jmerelo> cfa: ah, no, it's not

[17:29] <cfa> okay, bug #1 there

[17:29] <cfa> my history file has probably existed for at least 6 rakudo releases

[17:29] <MasterDuke> cfa: are you reading in any files? or using "prompt"?

[17:29] <cfa> MasterDuke: completely interactive

[17:29] <cfa> launch perl6 repl, keyboard input

[17:30] <cfa> no flags

[17:30] <jmerelo> cfa: but it returns a handle anyway. Even if it's not created

[17:30] <cfa> anyway, the history file not being created might be an old problem

[17:30] <cfa> but this crash is new for me

[17:30] <MasterDuke> cfa: does it happen in every repl session eventually?

[17:31] <cfa> MasterDuke: the crash?

[17:31] <MasterDuke> yeah

[17:31] <cfa> basically, yeah

[17:31] <cfa> to the point that the repl is kinda unusable

[17:32] <cfa> so i need to downgrade to linenoise i guess (which is a real downgrade given its lack of unicode support)

[17:32] <MasterDuke> cfa: does running with --ll-exception give anything useful?

[17:32] <MasterDuke> i'm trying to repro, but haven't yet

[17:32] <cfa> i'll try

[17:34] <MasterDuke> also, you could trying running under gdb. i.e., use perl6-gdb-m instead of just the regular perl6 binary

[17:34] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:34] <cfa> nothing from that flag

[17:34] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:34] *** rindolf left
[17:35] <cfa> hmm

[17:35] <cfa> i tried with perl6-lldb-m

[17:35] <cfa> Process 82680 launched: '/Users/cfa/.rakudup/2019.03/install/bin/moar' (x86_64)

[17:35] <cfa> I ran into a problem while trying to set up Readline: Could not instantiate role 'ReadlineBehavior':

[17:35] <cfa> Falling back to Linenoise (if present)

[17:36] <cfa> (i don't have gdb)

[17:36] <MasterDuke> if you're getting an exception you may need to set a breakpoint at MVM_exception_throw_adhoc

[17:37] <cfa> mhmm

[17:37] <cfa> i'm not getting evaluated output when i run

[17:37] <cfa> which makes this rather problematic

[17:38] <MasterDuke> heh, and i can use Readline in lldb and gdb, but aren't getting any crashes

[17:38] <cfa> could be related to my readline library ofc

[17:38] <cfa> but that hasn't changed between releases

[17:39] <cfa> (macports' libreadline.8.dylib)

[17:39] *** rindolf joined
[17:39] <AlexDaniel> cfa: what if the way you compile rakudo changed?

[17:39] <cfa> AlexDaniel: rakudup for 2018.12 too

[17:40] <AlexDaniel> yes, but‚Ä¶

[17:40] <AlexDaniel> let me find it

[17:40] *** ferreira joined
[17:40] <AlexDaniel> cfa: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/pull/1055 ?

[17:41] <cfa> AlexDaniel: isn't this performing checks?

[17:41] <cfa> AlexDaniel: i can't see any changes 

[17:42] *** andrzejku left
[17:42] <AlexDaniel> ahh, right

[17:42] <AlexDaniel> cfa: ok! Can you bisect it? :)

[17:42] <cfa> not sure how to do that practically given that the problem is encountered interactively

[17:43] <cfa> i should probably revert to 2018.12 and check whether i'm now encountering this error there

[17:43] <cfa> because that would mean system libraries or Readline itself

[17:43] <AlexDaniel> cfa: clone rakudo repo and use `git bisect`

[17:43] <cfa> though i doubt it because 2018.12 was working fine, this issue cropped up within 5 minutes of ugprading

[17:43] <cfa> AlexDaniel: to look for what?

[17:44] <AlexDaniel> cfa: old 2018.12 new HEAD

[17:44] <AlexDaniel> cfa: it will be jumping between revisions, you'll need to run make to compile and then check if the issue exists

[17:44] <AlexDaniel> in total you'll need to do around 11 checks, I think

[17:45] <cfa> hmm

[17:45] <MasterDuke> cfa: btw, if would be good to try with MVM_JIT_DISABLE=1 and then MVM_SPESH_DISABLE=1 to see if there's any change when those are disabled

[17:45] <MasterDuke> that will help with troubleshooting

[17:46] <cfa> okay

[17:46] *** yqt left
[17:46] *** andrzejku joined
[17:46] <cfa> nobody's able to repro this?

[17:47] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:47] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:48] <MasterDuke> not so far

[17:48] <cfa> dang

[17:51] <MasterDuke> what's your env LANG set to?

[17:54] <cfa> LANG="en_US.UTF-8"

[17:54] <cfa> (as are LC_* apart from LC_ALL which is blank

[17:55] <MasterDuke> hm. and no difference with those MVM_*_DISABLE env vars set?

[17:55] <cfa> i'm trying

[17:55] <cfa> the crash doesn't occur immediately

[17:56] <cfa> i'm having trouble getting the crash without those set atm, sigh

[17:57] *** denix13_ left
[17:59] <MasterDuke> well, there was some nativecall and/or jit stuff done in the most recent release, so maybe we need to look at those more closely

[18:00] <cfa> got the crash with =0 again

[18:01] <cfa> okay!

[18:02] <cfa> https://gist.github.com/cfa/7fe38dcd0dadcbbff674ce9621daafbb

[18:02] <cfa> MVM_SPESH_DISABLE=1 doesn't help

[18:04] *** ravenousmoose left
[18:07] <MasterDuke> huh, i was expecting it to make a difference

[18:09] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:10] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:10] <MasterDuke> cfa: can you install gdb?

[18:11] *** jmerelo left
[18:16] <El_Che> great new about comma community edition

[18:16] <El_Che> thx sena_kun jnthn (and the people I forget to highlight)

[18:18] *** ferreira left
[18:18] *** molaf left
[18:23] *** kurahaupo_ left
[18:23] *** kurahaupo joined
[18:23] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:24] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:24] *** zacts left
[18:28] *** netrino joined
[18:31] *** AlexDaniel left
[18:33] <cfa> MasterDuke: i'll try

[18:33] <cfa> don't have a huge amount of time today

[18:36] <MasterDuke> no worries

[18:37] *** andrzejku left
[18:37] <cfa> yet to repro with MVM_JIT_DISABLE=1

[18:38] <cfa> oh, therewe go

[18:39] <cfa> https://gist.github.com/cfa/7fe38dcd0dadcbbff674ce9621daafbb comment

[18:40] *** molaf joined
[18:40] <cfa> also fwiw, that's without a history file

[18:41] *** lizmat joined
[18:44] *** Cabanossi left
[18:45] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:45] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:47] <cfa> MasterDuke: https://gist.github.com/0racle/c7e65b6946a30479cf8493fbafc04f53

[18:47] <cfa> similar

[18:48] <MasterDuke> huh, really not new

[18:50] <cfa> yeah

[18:50] <cfa> also unclear whether this was reported, resolved for 0racle

[18:50] <cfa> new for me though 

[18:51] <cfa> üéâ

[18:53] <MasterDuke> i don't see a relevant existing (or closed) moarvm issue

[18:54] <cfa> dang

[18:55] *** Cabanossi joined
[18:55] <MasterDuke> or rakudo issue

[18:57] <MasterDuke> cfa: when you get a chance could you create one?

[18:57] <cfa> sure, against rakudo?

[18:57] <MasterDuke> and/or moarvm

[18:57] <cfa> btw, i gather those testing are on the latest readline?

[18:57] <cfa> i have Readline:ver<0.1.5>:auth<github:drforr>

[18:58] <MasterDuke> 0.1.5 here also

[18:58] <MasterDuke> :q

[18:58] <cfa> k

[19:00] <MasterDuke> and libreadline7 version 7.0-5 on kubuntu 18.10

[19:07] <cfa> https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2758 for the log issue

[19:09] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:09] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:17] <cfa> MasterDuke: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2759

[19:18] <MasterDuke> great, thanks

[19:33] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:33] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:33] *** drclaw2 joined
[19:37] *** bb01100100 joined
[19:41] *** |oLa| left
[19:45] *** kurahaupo left
[19:45] *** MidCheck joined
[19:45] *** woolfy joined
[19:45] *** bb01100100 left
[19:46] <cfa> hmm, as a stopgap i guess i ought to (i) tell the repl not to use Readline or Linenoise and (ii) use rlwrap

[19:46] <cfa> is (i) possible?

[19:46] <cfa> (assuming both are installed)

[19:47] *** kurahaupo joined
[19:48] <cfa> aha, RAKUDO_LINE_EDITOR='none' p6

[19:50] *** ufobat joined
[19:53] <cfa> noted that in a comment

[19:53] *** domidumont left
[19:53] *** kurahaupo left
[19:54] *** kurahaupo joined
[19:54] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:54] *** Cabanossi left
[19:54] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:59] *** Cabanossi joined
[20:02] *** kurahaupo left
[20:03] *** kurahaupo joined
[20:03] *** lucasb left
[20:05] *** cfa left
[20:06] *** kurahaupo left
[20:07] *** kurahaupo joined
[20:13] *** antoniogamiz joined
[20:13] *** AlexDaniel joined
[20:14] *** epony left
[20:17] <antoniogamiz> Hi! I'm Antonio Gamiz, a student from Granada, Spain. I've been around a couple of weeks, learning the basics about the community and Perl6!

[20:17] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:17] *** bb01100100 joined
[20:17] <antoniogamiz> My idea is to apply to GSOC with this project by jmerelo: https://github.com/perl6/doc/wiki/A-Redesign-of-the-Perl-6-Documentation-System

[20:17] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:18] <ufobat> \o/

[20:19] <antoniogamiz> I think it's a good idea if I make a repo where I periodically update my ideas and work about that, to get feedback from you and fresh ideas :D

[20:19] *** AlexDaniel left
[20:21] *** bwisti left
[20:24] <ufobat> antoniogamiz, you should ping jmerelo when he is online

[20:24] <ufobat> but what you can do is forc perl6/docs :)

[20:25] *** gfldex joined
[20:26] *** epony joined
[20:27] <antoniogamiz> ufobat: right, I'll do that :)

[20:28] <antoniogamiz> in fact I've already done it, but I wanted to say it here in order to make it more "formal" I suppose ahahah

[20:31] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:32] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:33] *** sena_kun left
[20:35] *** kensanata joined
[20:38] *** Chasman joined
[20:39] *** Skarsnik left
[20:39] *** Chasman left
[20:45] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Kaiepi++ created pull request #2655: Document the :&tap parameter of Supply.tap

[20:45] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2655

[20:46] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:47] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:51] *** ravenousmoose joined
[20:57] *** kurahaupo left
[20:59] *** kurahaupo joined
[21:01] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:02] *** kensanata left
[21:02] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:08] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:17] *** ferreira joined
[21:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:22] *** AlexDaniel left
[21:27] *** drclaw2 left
[21:28] <antoniogamiz> where can I find the code for rakudo-star distribution?

[21:29] <timotimo> antoniogamiz: what are you after, a way to install rakudo star, or how rakudo star packages are built?

[21:30] <timotimo> https://github.com/rakudo/star - this has all the tools - including the release-guide.pod documentation file - for building a rakudo star release

[21:30] <antoniogamiz> I'm searching the definitiion of the function pod2onepage

[21:30] <timotimo> that probably comes from Pod::To::OnePage module

[21:30] <timotimo> or maybe that lives in the docs repo?

[21:31] <antoniogamiz> oh it makes sense, I'll check it when I discover it ahah thanks :)

[21:31] <MasterDuke> antoniogamiz: probably https://github.com/perl6/perl6-pod-to-bigpage

[21:32] <antoniogamiz> MasterDuke: thanks :)

[21:32] <MasterDuke> np

[21:37] <Kaiepi> what's the name for <>, ¬´¬ª, and ()

[21:38] <Kaiepi> idk how to look them up in the docs

[21:38] <antoniogamiz> the first one is angle brackets I think

[21:38] <Kaiepi> no i mean like

[21:38] <Kaiepi> they're used to create lists

[21:38] <Kaiepi> is there a term for that?

[21:39] <antoniogamiz> eemmm this maybe? https://docs.perl6.org/routine/%3C%3E

[21:39] *** mowcat left
[21:39] <Kaiepi> no, i meant <> as in <foo bar baz>

[21:40] <pmurias> antoniogamiz: having your proposal and notes etc. in a github repo is a great idea

[21:40] <MasterDuke> https://docs.perl6.org/language/operators#term_%3C_%3E

[21:41] <Kaiepi> i guess there isn't a term

[21:41] *** |oLa| joined
[21:41] <timotimo> it's quote-words

[21:42] <Kaiepi> yeah but i meant a term for all three

[21:42] <timotimo> ¬´¬ª is interpolating quote-words, but () isn't a thing

[21:43] <timotimo> that's just grouping syntax

[21:43] *** mowcat joined
[21:43] *** mowcat left
[21:44] <Kaiepi> for context, i'm writing docs on types for the js nutshell and am explaining how to make enums. <>, ¬´¬ª, and () are allowed for declaring the enums' keys, but i didn't know what to call them

[21:44] *** mowcat joined
[21:44] <Kaiepi> i guess i'll just mention all three and link to their documentation

[21:45] <timotimo> "either put a string list literal like <> or ¬´¬ª or put a list literal in parenthesis"

[21:46] *** natrys left
[21:49] <Kaiepi> Enums can be defined by writing C<enum>, followed by the name of the enum, then the list of keys, which can be done using L¬´< >|/language/operators#term_<_>¬ª, C<¬´ ¬ª>, or L<( )|/language/operators#term_(_)>.

[21:49] <Kaiepi> there's no documentation on term ¬´ ¬ª?

[21:50] <Kaiepi> oh https://docs.perl6.org/language/quoting#Word_quoting_with_interpolation_and_quote_protection:_%C2%AB_%C2%BB

[21:54] *** zacts joined
[21:54] *** MidCheck left
[21:56] *** antoniogamiz left
[21:57] *** kensanata joined
[22:00] *** drclaw2 joined
[22:03] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:07] *** kensanata left
[22:07] *** ayerhart joined
[22:20] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:34] *** drclaw2 left
[22:41] *** Kaiepi left
[22:52] *** pecastro left
[22:55] *** ravenousmoose left
[22:59] *** Sgeo_ left
[23:01] *** Sgeo joined
[23:26] *** Kaiepi joined
[23:26] <Kaiepi> ffs this is the third time i've had to run make html for the docs, the first two times failing only after it processed every single pod file

[23:27] <Kaiepi> first time failed because npm's fucking dumb and made a lock file with root as the owner

[23:27] <Kaiepi> second time i forgot to set CC=egcc CXX=eg++ CPP=ecpp because node's dumb and uses the really old version of gcc openbsd has by default

[23:28] <timotimo> ah damn :(

[23:28] *** pmurias left
[23:29] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[23:32] *** kurahaupo left
[23:38] *** kurahaupo_ left
[23:38] *** kurahaupo joined
[23:40] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[23:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:43] *** aborazmeh joined
[23:43] *** aborazmeh left
[23:43] *** aborazmeh joined
[23:43] *** kurahaupo left
[23:46] <timotimo> so, why exactly doesn't this align strings:

[23:46] <timotimo> m: say "hello".fmt("%15s");

[23:46] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´          hello‚ê§¬ª

[23:46] <timotimo> m: say "hellooooo".fmt("%15s");

[23:46] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6e8df010f: OUTPUT: ¬´      hellooooo‚ê§¬ª

[23:46] <timotimo> huh, it does?

[23:46] <timotimo> *oh*

[23:46] <timotimo> null bytes, haha

[23:57] *** Sgeo_ joined
