[00:08] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:09] *** cpan-p6 joined
[00:35] *** rindolf left
[00:42] *** klapperl left
[00:48] *** w_richard_w joined
[00:49] *** klapperl joined
[00:55] *** zacts joined
[00:57] *** cpan-p6 left
[00:57] *** zacts left
[00:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:08] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! BitEnum (0.1) by 03CTILMES

[01:09] *** netrino left
[01:12] *** pistacchio joined
[01:16] *** pistacchio left
[01:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:17] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:20] *** zacts joined
[01:22] *** molaf left
[01:28] *** MidCheck joined
[01:30] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:31] *** zacts left
[01:31] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:33] *** zakharyas joined
[01:37] *** zacts joined
[01:38] *** Herby_ joined
[01:39] <Herby_>   o/

[01:44] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:45] *** cpan-p6 joined
[01:58] *** cpan-p6 left
[01:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:00] <tbrowder> Herby: \o

[02:00] <tbrowder> Herby_: \o

[02:05] <Herby_> tbrowder: How goes it?

[02:06] <tbrowder> fine, thank you. and you?

[02:08] <Herby_> good good.  Downloading the Comma IDE, looking forward to trying it out

[02:15] *** zacts left
[02:21] *** cpan-p6 left
[02:21] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:23] *** Herby_ left
[02:36] *** cpan-p6 left
[02:36] *** cpan-p6 joined
[02:43] *** quipa joined
[02:45] <quipa> Hello! New to perl6, trying it out on a Linux Mint box. When running a perl6 in the terminal I get "Reading from filehandle failed: Resource temporarily unavailable" error

[02:45] <quipa> And I can't input anything

[02:45] <quipa> thanks for any help!

[02:53] *** zacts joined
[03:02] *** cpan-p6 left
[03:02] *** cpan-p6 joined
[03:03] <Kaiepi> is there a way to bind lexical symbols at runtime? i tried using nqp::bindlex, but it complains about the value being QAST::Node

[03:07] <quipa> hum close the terminal and opened a new one that seemed to solve it.. Maybe because I just installed it

[03:07] <quipa> closed*

[03:14] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:14] *** aborazmeh left
[03:14] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:17] *** quipa_ joined
[03:20] *** quipa left
[03:20] *** cpan-p6 left
[03:20] *** cpan-p6 joined
[03:27] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Libui (0.0.2) by 03GARLANDG

[03:34] *** Herby_ joined
[03:34] *** cpan-p6 left
[03:34] *** cpan-p6 joined
[03:46] <Herby_> Saw something on the Rust subreddit talking about rewriting linux coreutils as an exercise in learning the language

[03:46] <Herby_> Seems like that would be a good exercise for p67

[03:46] <Herby_> *p6

[03:50] *** Cabanossi left
[03:51] *** zacts left
[03:51] *** zacts joined
[03:59] <lookatme_q> Herby_, cool idea, perl5 also has something like this named PPT

[04:01] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:02] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:02] <Herby_> lookatme_q:  I'll give that a look.  Thanks!

[04:03] <lookatme_q> And there is project about this : https://github.com/briandfoy/Perl6PowerTools

[04:04] *** Cabanossi joined
[04:06] *** Brilpikk3wyn joined
[04:07] <Herby_> lookatme_q: Thanks.  That one looks pretty dead.  I might start something fresh purely as a learning exercise

[04:07] <Herby_> If I do get something going, I might post it to the subreddit (and elsewhere) to see if people want to contribute

[04:07] <lookatme_q> welcome

[04:07] <lookatme_q> Herby_, that would be awesome

[04:08] <lookatme_q> noon break &

[04:15] *** [particle]1 joined
[04:16] *** aborazmeh left
[04:17] *** [particle] left
[04:20] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:21] *** xinming joined
[04:22] *** aborazmeh joined
[04:22] *** aborazmeh left
[04:22] *** aborazmeh joined
[04:24] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:24] *** xinming_ left
[04:28] *** MidCheck left
[04:31] *** aborazmeh left
[04:37] *** zacts left
[04:37] *** Herby_ left
[04:37] *** Herby__ joined
[04:42] *** Herby__ left
[04:45] *** Cabanossi left
[04:48] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:48] *** Cabanossi joined
[05:01] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:07] *** vrurg left
[05:20] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:24] *** Brilpikk3wyn left
[05:25] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:38] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:39] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:42] *** zacts joined
[05:48] *** sena_kun joined
[05:58] *** curan joined
[05:58] *** possum joined
[05:59] *** possum is now known as Guest83478

[05:59] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:00] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:02] *** quipa_ left
[06:04] *** MidCheck joined
[06:10] *** andrew_ joined
[06:10] <andrew_> hello

[06:14] <lookatme_q> andrew_, hi

[06:14] <andrew_> sup

[06:22] *** robertle left
[06:23] *** andrew_ left
[06:24] *** jmerelo joined
[06:24] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[06:24] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 18 days and ≈5 hours (2019-04-06 UTC-14⌁UTC+12). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[06:25] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:26] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:32] *** Kaiepi left
[06:32] *** Kaiepi joined
[06:39] *** cpan-p6 left
[06:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:40] *** epony joined
[06:46] *** zacts left
[06:58] *** pistacchio joined
[07:02] *** zacts joined
[07:02] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:02] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:05] *** domidumont joined
[07:07] *** cgfbee left
[07:13] *** Actualeyes joined
[07:18] *** domidumont left
[07:20] *** domidumont joined
[07:21] *** ravenousmoose joined
[07:24] *** random_yanek left
[07:25] *** random_yanek joined
[07:25] *** random_yanek left
[07:26] *** random_yanek joined
[07:27] *** jmerelo left
[07:27] *** w_richard_w left
[07:28] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:40] *** ufobat joined
[07:44] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:44] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:46] *** robertle joined
[07:51] *** reach_satori_ left
[07:52] *** ravenousmoose_ joined
[07:52] *** ravenousmoose left
[07:56] *** committable6 left
[07:56] *** undersightable6 left
[07:56] *** shareable6 left
[07:56] *** squashable6 left
[07:56] *** unicodable6 left
[07:57] *** benchable6 left
[07:57] *** coverable6 left
[07:57] *** statisfiable6 left
[07:57] *** greppable6 left
[07:57] *** notable6 left
[07:57] *** cgfbee joined
[07:57] *** nativecallable6 left
[07:57] *** reportable6 left
[07:57] *** evalable6 left
[07:57] *** releasable6 left
[07:57] *** bloatable6 left
[07:58] *** quotable6 left
[07:58] *** bisectable6 left
[08:00] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:01] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:03] *** patrickb joined
[08:08] *** Brilpikk3wyn joined
[08:08] *** quotable6 joined
[08:08] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v quotable6

[08:09] *** releasable6 joined
[08:09] *** statisfiable6 joined
[08:09] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v statisfiable6

[08:09] *** committable6 joined
[08:09] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v committable6

[08:09] *** Brilpikk3wyn is now known as Pikk3wyn

[08:09] *** greppable6 joined
[08:09] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v greppable6

[08:10] *** squashable6 joined
[08:10] *** shareable6 joined
[08:10] *** undersightable6 joined
[08:10] *** coverable6 joined
[08:10] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v coverable6

[08:10] *** bisectable6 joined
[08:10] *** evalable6 joined
[08:10] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v evalable6

[08:10] *** nativecallable6 joined
[08:10] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v nativecallable6

[08:10] *** bloatable6 joined
[08:10] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v bloatable6

[08:10] *** unicodable6 joined
[08:10] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v unicodable6

[08:10] *** alpha6 left
[08:11] *** Actualeyes left
[08:11] *** notable6 joined
[08:11] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v notable6

[08:11] *** alpha6 joined
[08:11] *** benchable6 joined
[08:11] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v benchable6

[08:11] *** reportable6 joined
[08:11] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[08:12] *** reach_satori joined
[08:24] *** reach_satori left
[08:27] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:27] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:30] *** kurahaupo left
[08:32] *** kurahaupo joined
[08:34] *** ravenousmoose_ left
[08:35] *** netrino joined
[08:38] *** kensanata joined
[08:39] *** ravenousmoose joined
[08:41] *** Pikk3wyn left
[08:42] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:43] *** netrino left
[08:43] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:43] *** leont joined
[08:46] *** Pikk3wyn joined
[08:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[08:57] *** cpan-p6 joined
[08:57] *** scimon joined
[08:58] <kawaii> Morning :)

[08:58] <scimon> Morning

[08:58] <sena_kun> o/

[09:06] *** Pikk3wyn left
[09:08] *** MidCheck left
[09:11] *** netrino joined
[09:14] <leont> o/

[09:17] *** dakkar joined
[09:17] <lookatme_q> good afternoon :)

[09:18] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:18] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:18] <masak> m: say "good {now}"

[09:18] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «good Instant:1552900763.240331␤»

[09:21] *** kurahaupo left
[09:26] <sena_kun> m: say "good {now.DateTime}"

[09:26] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «good 2019-03-18T09:26:49.213388Z␤»

[09:26] <sena_kun> m: say "good now.DateTime()"

[09:26] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «good now.DateTime()␤»

[09:26] <sena_kun> m: say "good now().DateTime()"

[09:26] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «good now().DateTime()␤»

[09:27] <masak> sena_kun: it won't interpolate unless it also starts with a sigil

[09:27] <sena_kun> so it is not a sub. :|

[09:27] *** kurahaupo joined
[09:27] <masak> it's not, but that's not why it doesn't work

[09:27] <masak> m: say &now

[09:27] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>␤Undeclared routine:␤    now used at line 1. Did you mean 'not', 'HOW'?␤␤»

[09:28] <sena_kun> docs say it's a term.

[09:28] <masak> m: "good &term:<now>().DateTime()"

[09:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «WARNINGS for <tmp>:␤Useless use of "good &term:<now>().DateTime()" in expression "good &term:<now>().DateTime()" in sink context (line 1)␤»

[09:28] <masak> m: say "good &term:<now>().DateTime()"

[09:28] <sena_kun> m: say "good DateTime.now().DateTime()"

[09:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «good 2019-03-18T09:28:52.768454Z␤»

[09:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «good DateTime.now().DateTime()␤»

[09:29] <masak> sena_kun: again, sigil needed at the start

[09:29] <masak> for interpolation to happen

[09:29] <sena_kun> I barely remember that just adding `()` works for method calls. :|

[09:30] <masak> it's a case where both are needed

[09:31] <masak> it's weird. I'm in a weird superposition with that feature where I think (a) the Perl 6 design got it mostly right with all the balancing between over-interpolating and being convenient, and (b) I think the feature asks the _reader_ to take on so much complexity in their head that I'd rather just use {} throughout

[09:31] <masak> it's like, I imagine a "Perl 6 Best Practices" would say the same

[09:42] *** rindolf joined
[09:45] *** zakharyas left
[09:45] *** cpan-p6 left
[09:45] *** cpan-p6 joined
[09:46] *** zakharyas joined
[09:47] *** Black_Ribbon left
[09:50] *** w_richard_w joined
[09:50] *** w_richard_w left
[09:51] *** netrino left
[09:59] *** cpan-p6 left
[10:00] *** cpan-p6 joined
[10:06] <mornfall> hmm, are the corner quotes used by p6 the asian ones, ｢like this｣ or the quine corners? (those are not paired up to be opposing IIUIC...) or something else yet?

[10:07] *** pistacchio left
[10:08] *** pistacchio joined
[10:10] <sena_kun> m: '｣  '.uniname.say # from regex match output

[10:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «HALFWIDTH RIGHT CORNER BRACKET␤»

[10:10] *** ryanth joined
[10:10] <sena_kun> m: '」'.uniname.say # hand-inputted from Japanese input method

[10:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «RIGHT CORNER BRACKET␤»

[10:10] <sena_kun> m: '「」'.uninames.say

[10:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «(LEFT CORNER BRACKET RIGHT CORNER BRACKET)␤»

[10:11] <sena_kun> m: '｢｣'.uninames.say

[10:11] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «(HALFWIDTH LEFT CORNER BRACKET HALFWIDTH RIGHT CORNER BRACKET)␤»

[10:11] <SmokeMachine> m: say "a" ~~ /a/

[10:11] <yoleaux> 17 Mar 2019 23:55Z <tbrowder> SmokeMachine: i'm happy with my PR with load-db.p6 and am now working on the next stage: query-db.p6

[10:11] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «｢a｣␤»

[10:11] <SmokeMachine> u: ｢

[10:11] <unicodable6> SmokeMachine, U+FF62 HALFWIDTH LEFT CORNER BRACKET [Ps] (｢)

[10:12] <sena_kun> so Perl 6 ones are halfwidth.

[10:12] *** ravenousmoose left
[10:12] <SmokeMachine> u: ｢a｣

[10:12] <unicodable6> SmokeMachine, U+FF62 HALFWIDTH LEFT CORNER BRACKET [Ps] (｢)

[10:12] <unicodable6> SmokeMachine, U+0061 LATIN SMALL LETTER A [Ll] (a)

[10:12] <unicodable6> SmokeMachine, U+FF63 HALFWIDTH RIGHT CORNER BRACKET [Pe] (｣)

[10:13] <ryanth> p6: say $*DISTRO.perl;

[10:13] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «Distro.new(release => "42.3", is-win => Bool::False, path-sep => ":", name => "opensuse", auth => "https://www.opensuse.org/", version => v42.3, signature => Blob, desc => "2019-03-18T11:13:07.433475+01:00")␤»

[10:13] *** Guest83478 left
[10:13] <SmokeMachine> .tell tbrowder so, would you like that to be merged now or wait for the other scripts?

[10:13] <yoleaux> SmokeMachine: I'll pass your message to tbrowder.

[10:15] <ryanth> p6: say $*PERL.compiler.version;

[10:15] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «v2019.03.1.46.g.6.d.8077.cec␤»

[10:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[10:16] *** cpan-p6 joined
[10:16] *** zakharyas left
[10:17] <ryanth> Is 2018.10 the latest stable build? https://perl6.org/downloads/ seems to think so

[10:18] <sena_kun> for Rakudo Star - yes. but 2019.3 should be released soon.

[10:19] <sena_kun> for just rakudo compiler, 2019.3.1 is the latest now.

[10:20] <ryanth> Ok, thanks. Is there a better/recommended version for non-production experimental/dev work?

[10:20] <tbrowder> SmokeMachine: Hi! Up to you, but let's wait for a day or two. I had a mental breakthrough after I thought about relooking at my copy of Andrew Shitov's "Deep Dive..." book and read his excellent section on Functional Programming. Now I can more confidantly proceed with qureies and updates and I should have some good progress after today.

[10:20] <yoleaux> 10:13Z <SmokeMachine> tbrowder: so, would you like that to be merged now or wait for the other scripts?

[10:21] <tbrowder> ^^

[10:22] *** pmurias joined
[10:22] <pmurias> m: say $*CWD;

[10:22] <yoleaux> 17 Mar 2019 04:05Z <ugexe> pmurias: https://github.com/perl6/nqp/pull/517#issuecomment-463036136 <-- I can add this, but I would need to know which file to put it under (new file os.js? some existing file?)

[10:22] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «"/home/camelia".IO␤»

[10:24] <pmurias> ugexe: I would put that into src/vm/js/nqp-runtime/io.js 

[10:27] *** pistacchio left
[10:27] *** pistacchio joined
[10:31] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[10:33] <mornfall> sena_kun: thanks

[10:33] <pmurias> what should $*CWD return in the browser?

[10:36] <pmurias> a roast tests checks that the CWD is the same at compile and runtime, so I'm thinking of making it pluggable by setting window.NQP_CWD

[10:37] <mornfall> you could also just set it to /?

[10:40] *** cpan-p6 left
[10:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[10:41] <pmurias> mornfall: I'm not sure what it's supposed to mean when running in the browser

[10:42] *** ExtraCrispy left
[10:42] <mornfall> well, there is a filesystem webapi now... but outside of that, probably nothing

[10:49] <pmurias> mornfall: does a current working directory make any sense when working with that?

[10:51] <mornfall> pmurias: possibly not in the api itself, but if you wanted to make a posix-like wrapper around it, then you would keep track of the cwd yes

[10:51] <pmurias> it seems to the plan for giving browser access for files is to allow the user to manually select directories and files for the web app to work on

[10:53] <jast> I don't think CWD has any meaning in a web context

[10:54] <SmokeMachine> tbrowder: ok...

[10:55] <pmurias> mornfall: I could imagine asking the user to pick a directory (using a file picker dialog) to select the 'current working directory' he wants a ported app to work on

[10:55] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[10:57] <jast> I don't think any web API is going to give you the level of access needed to actually do something with a picked directory

[10:57] <pmurias> jast: why not?

[10:57] <mornfall> no, what i mean is that if you want things like spurt/slurp and so on work using the web api, you need to also keep track of cwd

[10:58] <jast> all the new APIs are always about the sandboxing

[10:58] <jast> for instance, mozilla's non-standard file system API restricts you to a virtual filesystem

[10:58] <mornfall> jast: the webapp gets a filesystem sandbox in which it can create files and directories

[10:58] <pmurias> jast: they want to support things like ides and text editors

[10:58] <ryanth> Alright, I'm a few years out of the loop. How/where do I get the source to build 2019.3 (or .3.1)?

[10:59] <jast> and in a virtual filesystem, sure, technically you can let the user pick something, but you're not going to be able to access anything that exists in your actual filesystem

[10:59] <ryanth> Been all over rakudo.org and github, but couldn't see an obvious branch to clone.

[10:59] <pmurias> I assume goal is for the browser to take over all the electron apps

[10:59] <jast> in fact even the browser extension APIs are getting locked down like this

[11:00] <jast> you can't do arbitrary filesystem access in WebExtensions

[11:00] <timotimo> ryanth: you'll want the "compiler only installation" for now

[11:00] <timotimo> that'll have your 2019.03.1 and 2019.03 as well as older ones

[11:00] <ryanth> timotimo: Cheers, I'll check that out.

[11:01] <jast> I wanted to write an extension recently to interact with a native program via the filesystem, but that would have required me to write a second native program that implements the WebExtensions native messaging interface and that does all the heavy lifting

[11:01] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:01] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:01] <timotimo> jast: there are many programs that you can just natively use via a simple JSONRPC API for full filesystem access

[11:02] <timotimo> many of which tend to already be installed on a regular user's system

[11:02] <timotimo> i don't remember what exactly it was, but i think some antivirus solution had that feature

[11:02] <jast> but you can't just launch arbitrary binaries in WebExtensions

[11:02] <jast> it's all incredibly tedious

[11:03] <jast> to get any native access at all you need to deploy a binary of your own, along with a manifest file put in a specific location

[11:03] <jast> or something like that. I read through the docs and immediately decided not to bother with it

[11:03] *** quipa joined
[11:04] *** ravenousmoose joined
[11:04] <jast> instead I made a separate HTTP application server that my extension would communicate with, that way I "only" had to disable the browser's restrictions about secure pages not being allowed to connect to plain HTTP websockets (even on localhost, even within an extension)

[11:09] <timotimo> other programs get around that problem by installing their own root certificate in the user's system :) :) :)

[11:10] *** ravenousmoose left
[11:10] *** domidumont left
[11:14] <jast> timotimo: gosh, why didn't I think of that :) :) :)

[11:15] <jast> I'm all in favour of installs requiring elevated privileges all the time, conditions users to just confirm all the prompts which can only be a good thing

[11:16] <timotimo> it's so hilarious when software to make browsing more secure ends up just putting a root certificate on your system *including the private key* which is *the same on all machines*

[11:17] <jast> plot twist: it's the same root certificate they use in their CA business

[11:17] <timotimo> that didn't actually happen, right?

[11:17] <jast> no, but I recall one of the big names accidentally included their code signing key in a public repo once

[11:18] <timotimo> ouch.

[11:19] <jast> it's amazing enough how many developers just version control *everything*, including the config files containing secrets

[11:21] <timotimo> does github nowadays automatically point out when you're uploading something with "START SECRET KEY" in it or something?

[11:21] <jast> beats me... I never do that :)

[11:21] <timotimo> i seem to recall a pre-made url for the github search that would just find every private key on the whole site

[11:21] <jast> because I don't make mistaeks

[11:21] <timotimo> oh, that's good

[11:21] <jast> I'm infallable

[11:22] <timotimo> but do you actually do stuff?

[11:22] <jast> sure

[11:22] <timotimo> OK

[11:22] <jast> all those youtube videos don't watch themselves

[11:23] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:27] *** antoniogamiz joined
[11:29] <pmurias> jast: https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/11/writable-files

[11:33] *** cpan-p6 joined
[11:43] *** quipa left
[11:45] *** ravenousmoose joined
[11:47] *** cpan-p6 left
[11:47] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:01] *** El_Che left
[12:01] *** El_Che joined
[12:09] <tbrowder> SmokeMachine: i forgot to also give credit to "Learning Perl 6" by brian d foy for clear discussions and examples on grep and map.

[12:09] <SmokeMachine> :)

[12:12] *** zakharyas joined
[12:12] *** cpan-p6 left
[12:13] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:19] <lizmat> weekly: https://neopythonic.blogspot.com/2019/03/why-operators-are-useful.html

[12:19] <notable6> lizmat, Noted!

[12:19] *** andrzejku joined
[12:20] <lizmat> weekly: https://medium.com/@elizarov/types-are-moving-to-the-right-22c0ef31dd4a

[12:20] <notable6> lizmat, Noted!

[12:24] <jast> pmurias: right, that actually looks more useful than I expected... so we may have usable filesystem access at some point in the future at least :)

[12:27] *** pistacchio left
[12:28] *** pistacchio joined
[12:28] *** pmurias left
[12:30] *** cpan-p6 left
[12:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:31] *** zakharyas left
[12:32] *** pistacchio left
[12:43] *** cpan-p6 left
[12:44] *** cpan-p6 joined
[12:49] *** leah2 left
[12:50] *** leah2 joined
[12:52] *** domidumont joined
[12:53] *** quipa joined
[12:55] *** antoniogamiz left
[12:56] <quipa> hello, trying to get zef working on a linux mint, but having some trouble

[12:57] <quipa> used the git approach

[12:57] <quipa> but terminal doesn't seem to find it after that

[13:06] <quipa> made a little hack, maybe not the best way but added a link .perl6/bin/zef to .local/bin/zef and added .local/bin to my PATH variable

[13:07] <quipa> if there is a more sensible way to do this please let me know! ;)

[13:08] <sena_kun> I think the easier thing is to add .perl6/bin to path.

[13:08] *** cpan-p6 left
[13:08] <sena_kun> my $PATH has both .local/bin and .perl6/bin, for example.

[13:09] *** ravenousmoose left
[13:10] <quipa> hum yeah true!

[13:10] <quipa> think I'll do that ;)

[13:13] *** pistacchio joined
[13:18] *** cpan-p6 joined
[13:19] *** pistacchio left
[13:24] *** pistacchio joined
[13:28] *** domidumont left
[13:30] *** domidumont joined
[13:31] *** domidumont1 joined
[13:32] *** cpan-p6 left
[13:32] *** cpan-p6 joined
[13:33] <chee> timotimo: github email you about it if you accidentally commit credentials now. they also tell you give you advice on how to recover from the situation you've put yourself in

[13:35] *** domidumont left
[13:36] *** leont left
[13:37] *** ravenousmoose joined
[13:39] *** kurahaupo left
[13:39] *** kurahaupo joined
[13:47] *** brrt joined
[13:54] *** patrickb left
[13:57] *** cpan-p6 left
[13:57] <timotimo> that's laudable!

[13:59] *** vrurg joined
[14:07] *** brrt left
[14:11] *** cpan-p6 joined
[14:15] *** pistacchio left
[14:15] *** pistacchio joined
[14:29] *** Sgeo joined
[14:32] *** Sgeo_ left
[14:35] *** Sgeo_ joined
[14:36] *** Sgeo_ left
[14:36] *** Sgeo_ joined
[14:37] *** Sgeo left
[14:53] *** bb656 joined
[14:58] *** cpan-p6 left
[14:58] *** vrurg left
[15:00] *** vrurg joined
[15:01] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:09] *** Khisanth left
[15:10] *** MidCheck joined
[15:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:17] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:23] *** Khisanth joined
[15:37] *** antoniogamiz joined
[15:38] *** pyrimidine left
[15:40] *** bb656 left
[15:40] *** eseyman left
[15:42] *** zacts left
[15:44] <antoniogamiz> hi o/

[15:46] <sena_kun> o/

[15:46] <antoniogamiz> someone know why zef install Pod::Cached doesnt found the module? 

[15:46] <sena_kun> modules.perl6.org doesn't know such a module.

[15:46] <sena_kun> antoniogamiz, where is the module released? github-based ecosystem? cpan?

[15:47] <antoniogamiz> perl6 ecosystem says in its repo

[15:48] <sena_kun> just looked at "provides" section, I am seeing some issues...

[15:48] *** gfldex left
[15:48] *** gfldex joined
[15:49] <sena_kun> s/seeing/spotting/

[15:49] <sena_kun> though the module installs fine locally.

[15:50] <antoniogamiz> I will install it locally then :)

[15:50] *** ggoebel joined
[15:50] <sena_kun> I think something goes wrong because of https://raw.githubusercontent.com/finanalyst/pod-cached/master/META6.json content.

[15:51] *** cpan-p6 left
[15:51] <sena_kun> but cannot spot what exactly can lead to its absence, alas.

[15:52] *** cpan-p6 joined
[15:53] *** eseyman joined
[15:53] <antoniogamiz> should I open an issue?

[15:54] <sena_kun> likely "yes". I'd check it with META6 testing module.

[15:54] <sena_kun> maybe it'll be able to spot something obvious. :)

[15:54] *** natrys joined
[15:54] <sena_kun> though I am sure that with a serious issue we wouldn't be able to install it locally, hmm.

[15:55] *** zachk joined
[15:56] *** pyrimidine joined
[15:56] *** eliasr joined
[15:57] <antoniogamiz> where can I find that module? :oo

[15:58] <antoniogamiz> ah Test::Meta haha

[16:00] *** mowcat joined
[16:00] <sena_kun> right, that's it. Sorry I didn't remember how its called exactly. :|

[16:00] *** zachk left
[16:00] *** zachk joined
[16:03] <antoniogamiz> https://pastebin.com/ee5mPa9F

[16:04] <sena_kun> ># github source https://github.com/finanalyst/pod-cached needs to end in .git

[16:04] <sena_kun> I think that may be the culprit.

[16:04] <antoniogamiz> oh I didnt read that... 

[16:04] <sena_kun> antoniogamiz, so you can create an issue and file a pull request.

[16:05] <sena_kun> and when it'll be accepted, we'll see if that helps. :)

[16:05] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:05] <sena_kun> fixing both "author" field and "source-url" field, I think.

[16:05] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:06] *** robertle left
[16:06] *** zacts joined
[16:09] <antoniogamiz> done :)

[16:09] <sena_kun> antoniogamiz++

[16:09] <antoniogamiz> thanks for the help 

[16:10] <sena_kun> you are welcome.

[16:14] <antoniogamiz> I gotta go, have a nice day with perl6 c:

[16:14] *** antoniogamiz left
[16:14] <lizmat> and another Perl 6 weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2019/03/18/2019-11-complete-course/

[16:19] *** cpan-p6 left
[16:19] *** cpan-p6 joined
[16:21] <sena_kun> lizmat, `GraalVM is delivering by .` tweet misses its author.

[16:22] *** andrzejku left
[16:22] <lizmat> fixed   # sena_kun++

[16:22] <sena_kun> lizmat++

[16:24] *** jmerelo joined
[16:28] *** ufobat left
[16:29] *** Peter_R joined
[16:29] * lizmat pings moritz 

[16:30] <moritz> hm?

[16:30] <lizmat> P6W  :-)

[16:31] <moritz> right, rw-twot

[16:31] <lizmat> moritz++

[16:38] *** curan left
[16:46] <AlexDaniel> .tell jmerelo see http://news.perlfoundation.org/2019/03/grant-proposal-create-a-comple.html

[16:46] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[16:46] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ah, you're here

[16:46] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: right

[16:46] <yoleaux> 16:46Z <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: see http://news.perlfoundation.org/2019/03/grant-proposal-create-a-comple.html

[16:46] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: I'm thinking you might have a couple of good words about creating a separate website that is disconnected from the docs…

[16:46] *** thelounge25 joined
[16:46] *** thelounge25 left
[16:47] *** molaf joined
[16:56] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I would very much prefer help with the docs, of course. 

[16:58] *** domidumont1 left
[17:02] *** zacts left
[17:02] <jmerelo> Maybe someone with the privs would help flesh out this StackOverflow page? https://stackoverflow.com/tags/nqp/info

[17:03] <jmerelo> It's got exactly 9 questions tagged so far, but that does not mean some documentation will not help

[17:04] <jmerelo> Ditto for Cro: https://stackoverflow.com/tags/cro/info (14 questions so far)

[17:06] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:07] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:14] *** zacts joined
[17:25] *** zacts left
[17:25] *** scimon left
[17:28] *** imcsk8 left
[17:28] <kawaii> timotimo: don't suppose I can annoy you sometime this week about using your library (cairo) in part of an upcoming feature in one of my Discord bots? Want to generate an SVG image on the fly using it based on a template SVG + some data (such as user level and experience points) which will determine the size and text of some other attributes :)

[17:29] *** MidCheck left
[17:29] <timotimo> i'm not entirely sure cairo is the right library for that job

[17:30] *** dakkar left
[17:31] <kawaii> https://github.com/moritz/svg

[17:31] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:31] <kawaii> it's possible this will do what I need

[17:31] *** pistacchio left
[17:31] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:31] *** pistacchio joined
[17:32] *** imcsk8 joined
[17:36] *** pistacchio left
[17:37] <timotimo> that may mostly be useful for writing a full svg document from scratch

[17:43] *** Brilpikk3wyn joined
[17:43] *** Brilpikk3wyn left
[17:43] <kawaii> Hmm, can't find anything in the ecosystem for using an existing template, unless I basically generate the image from scratch based on this template each time

[17:44] <timotimo> ah what the hell just regexp it :D :D :D

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: be2f355aff | Coke++ | doc/Type/Collation.pod6

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: fix example compilation

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/be2f355aff

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: e3b3b0f932 | Coke++ | doc/Language/5to6-nutshell.pod6

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: pass link test

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/e3b3b0f932

[17:45] *** cpan-p6 left
[17:45] *** cpan-p6 joined
[17:46] *** antoniogamiz joined
[17:48] *** robertle joined
[17:54] <antoniogamiz> tbrowder: Hi! I want to tell you that I'm writing my proposal here: https://github.com/antoniogamiz/perl6-gsoc-application/blob/master/README.md

[17:55] <antoniogamiz> so if you want to give me some feedback about it I'm all ears c:

[17:57] <antoniogamiz> .seen finanalyst

[17:57] <yoleaux> I saw finanalyst 1 Jan 2019 05:30Z in #perl6: <finanalyst> Zoffix: I came on to ask about why docs.perl6.org was down, and you just fixed it. Thanks. Sort of faster than light for me :)

[17:58] <antoniogamiz> uoh, that was a long time ago, I wanted to tell him about the proposal too 

[17:58] *** domidumont joined
[18:07] * xinming wishes Zoffix can be back to #perl6  :-)

[18:08] *** molaf left
[18:09] *** molaf joined
[18:10] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:10] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:13] <tbrowder> antoniogamiz: hi! welcome! finanalyst is moving back the UK from the other side of the world, so i'm not sure when we will be hearing from him. jjmerelo is probably the one most familiar with the state and direction of his work today. ref your proposal, it looks like a decent start but will need to be more detailed i think. have you looked at examples of projects accepted for gsoc? have you been able to follow at least some

[18:13] <tbrowder> part of the thread of finanalyst's discussions on his work on the docs?

[18:14] *** zacts joined
[18:16] *** pistacchio joined
[18:19] <antoniogamiz> tbrowder: yep it's quite sort for the moment, I plan to have a meeting with jmerelo and I wanted that you knew about my proposal because you are a mentar too

[18:20] <tbrowder> ok, thanks. i'm really more of a draftee assistant! :-)

[18:21] <antoniogamiz> tbrowder: ah ok, anyway it's good to know your opinion :)

[18:22] <antoniogamiz> referring the thread of finanalyst's discussion, i only have seen the redesing proposal and how are made some modules used to generate the docs

[18:24] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:24] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:25] *** molaf left
[18:29] *** sauvin left
[18:30] *** quipa left
[18:30] <antoniogamiz> I gotta go, I'll be back at night :)

[18:30] *** antoniogamiz left
[18:30] *** quipa joined
[18:34] *** quipa left
[18:35] *** lgtaube left
[18:36] *** quipa joined
[18:36] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[18:38] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:38] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:46] *** netrino joined
[18:48] <Kaiepi> why is &chdir in PROCESS instead of CORE?

[18:51] *** lgtaube joined
[18:56] <tbrowder> antoniogamiz: ref your timeline, doesn't gsoc go through june?

[18:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[18:56] *** ayerhart_ left
[18:56] *** cpan-p6 joined
[18:57] <tbrowder> .ask antoniogamiz ref your timeline, doesn't gsoc go through june?

[18:57] <yoleaux> tbrowder: I'll pass your message to antoniogamiz.

[19:10] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:10] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:11] <jmerelo> tbrowder: right. Starts at the end of may /cc antoniogamiz

[19:15] *** kst joined
[19:19] *** leont joined
[19:19] *** guifa joined
[19:20] *** dr_df0 joined
[19:24] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:24] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:25] *** quipa left
[19:25] *** quipa joined
[19:29] *** eliasr left
[19:32] *** kensanata left
[19:36] *** leont left
[19:38] *** natrys left
[19:38] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:39] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:39] *** domidumont left
[19:50] *** dr_df0 left
[19:52] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:52] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:01] *** Kaiepi left
[20:02] *** Kaiepi joined
[20:06] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:06] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:14] *** momozor joined
[20:15] <momozor> p6: say 'hi';

[20:15] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «hi␤»

[20:20] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:20] *** cpan-p6 joined
[20:21] *** molaf joined
[20:23] *** pecastro joined
[20:26] *** dr_df0 joined
[20:27] <timotimo> o/

[20:29] <discord6> <Vendethiel> \o

[20:29] <timotimo> discord6: invite

[20:29] <timotimo> ^- it'd be cool if the bot responded to this with an invite link

[20:36] <momozor> p6: my @l = 1..5; for @l -> $x { say $x }

[20:36] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «1␤2␤3␤4␤5␤»

[20:37] <momozor> p6: my @l = 1..5; for @l -> $x[-2] { say $x[-2] }

[20:37] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>␤Unsupported use of a negative -2 subscript to index from the end; in Perl 6 please use a function such as *-2␤at <tmp>:1␤------> 3my @l = 1..5; for @l -> $x[-2]7⏏5 { say $x[-2] }␤»

[20:40] <Geth> ¦ doc: pmqs++ created pull request #2681: Typo

[20:40] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2681

[20:42] <Geth> ¦ doc: e654aa13a2 | (Paul Marquess)++ (committed by timo) | doc/Language/structures.pod6

[20:42] <Geth> ¦ doc: Typo (#2681)

[20:42] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[20:42] <Geth> ¦ doc: "ts" should be "it's"

[20:42] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/e654aa13a2

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: 6f1c339617 | Coke++ | doc/Type/X/Proc/Async/BindOrUse.pod6

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: compile signature

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: Note that it compiled fine on its own, but caused an issue

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: when a full <make xtest> was run, presumably due to interaction

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: with other overrides.

[20:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/6f1c339617

[20:47] *** zacts left
[20:48] *** hankache joined
[20:48] <hankache> hello #perl6

[20:48] <yoleaux> 17 Mar 2019 05:47Z <AlexDaniel> hankache: yes? :)

[20:56] *** cpan-p6 left
[20:56] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:04] *** jmerelo left
[21:10] *** momozor left
[21:11] *** antoniogamiz joined
[21:13] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:13] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:13] <antoniogamiz> tbrowder: yeah I know but as I said, the proposol is not finished

[21:13] <yoleaux> 18:57Z <tbrowder> antoniogamiz: ref your timeline, doesn't gsoc go through june?

[21:14] <antoniogamiz> proposal*

[21:15] <antoniogamiz> I only wanted you to know that I'll be doing it in that repo, so you can check it to see if you like it

[21:15] <antoniogamiz> because jmerelo told me that I should talk with you and richard

[21:17] *** epony left
[21:20] *** lucasb joined
[21:21] *** jkkkkkkkkkkk joined
[21:23] *** epony joined
[21:23] *** jkkkkkkkkkkk left
[21:23] *** eythian left
[21:25] *** netrino_ joined
[21:27] *** netrino left
[21:28] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:29] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:30] *** hankache left
[21:34] *** phogg left
[21:36] *** |oLa| joined
[21:37] *** eythian joined
[21:37] *** eythian left
[21:37] *** eythian joined
[21:44] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:44] *** cpan-p6 joined
[21:52] *** phogg joined
[21:59] *** cpan-p6 left
[21:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:00] <discord6> <Rogue> Where might one use the anon declarator? I can't think of any non-trivial use case for it, but I'm sure there is one

[22:01] *** leont joined
[22:02] <discord6> <Vendethiel> I use it often for regex, sometimes for subs

[22:02] <discord6> <Vendethiel> Sometimes I just use ::

[22:03] <moritz> you use anon when you want to create something that knows its own type, but don't want to install the name

[22:03] <moritz> m: my $cb = anon sub destroy-the-world() { die "fuuuu" }; say $cb.name

[22:03] <camelia> rakudo-moar 6d8077cec: OUTPUT: «destroy-the-world␤»

[22:03] <moritz> this makes debugging in callback hell a bit easier

[22:06] <timotimo> that knows its own name*

[22:06] <timotimo> you can have multiple declarations with the same name in the same scope, too, without issue

[22:12] <tbrowder> antoniogamiz: i am watching your p6 repo and will try to visit often

[22:13] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:13] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:13] *** pecastro left
[22:15] <antoniogamiz> tbrowder: ok, thanks :)

[22:15] <antoniogamiz> night c:

[22:15] *** antoniogamiz left
[22:15] *** kurahaupo left
[22:15] *** kurahaupo joined
[22:24] *** molaf left
[22:26] *** quipa left
[22:27] *** quipa joined
[22:30] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:30] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:31] *** bobby left
[22:36] *** bobby joined
[22:43] *** bobby left
[22:43] *** Bob- joined
[22:48] *** bobby joined
[22:49] *** Bob- left
[22:49] *** kurahaupo left
[22:50] *** kurahaupo joined
[22:53] *** Kaiepi left
[22:53] *** Kaiepi joined
[22:55] *** cpan-p6 left
[22:56] *** cpan-p6 joined
[22:58] *** bobby left
[23:01] *** bobby joined
[23:06] *** zacts joined
[23:08] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:08] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:10] *** bobby left
[23:14] *** sena_kun left
[23:15] *** leont left
[23:22] *** moony left
[23:22] *** moony joined
[23:28] *** bobby joined
[23:30] *** dr_df0 left
[23:32] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:33] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:35] *** Bob- joined
[23:36] *** bobby left
[23:42] *** Bob- left
[23:42] *** bobby joined
[23:43] *** dr_df0 joined
[23:47] *** netrino joined
[23:48] *** netrino_ left
[23:51] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:52] *** MasterDuke left
[23:52] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:55] *** zacts left
[23:59] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:59] *** cpan-p6 joined
