[00:06] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[00:10] *** epony left
[00:19] *** squashable6 left
[00:22] *** squashable6 joined
[00:30] *** jimtron left
[00:31] *** jimtron joined
[00:32] *** aborazmeh joined
[00:32] *** aborazmeh left
[00:32] *** aborazmeh joined
[00:36] *** aborazmeh_ joined
[00:36] *** aborazmeh_ left
[00:36] *** aborazmeh_ joined
[00:37] *** aborazmeh left
[00:37] *** aborazmeh_ is now known as aborazmeh

[00:53] *** lucasb left
[00:56] *** wildtrees left
[01:00] *** wamba left
[01:07] *** aborazmeh left
[01:22] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[01:30] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Net::IP (1.1.0) by 03TBROWDER

[01:42] *** molaf left
[01:55] *** molaf joined
[02:08] *** aborazmeh joined
[02:08] *** aborazmeh left
[02:08] *** aborazmeh joined
[02:27] *** cinch joined
[02:33] *** jimtron left
[02:34] *** jimtron joined
[02:40] *** aborazmeh left
[02:51] *** Cabanossi left
[02:57] *** Cabanossi joined
[02:58] *** sono__ joined
[03:01] *** Black_Ribbon left
[03:04] *** sono__ left
[03:19] *** mojo joined
[03:19] *** mojo is now known as Guest76442

[03:20] *** Guest76442 left
[03:21] *** mojo_ joined
[03:25] *** mojo_ left
[03:32] *** sharmaso joined
[03:56] *** jimtron left
[03:56] *** jimtron joined
[03:59] *** sno left
[04:02] *** molaf left
[04:22] *** Exodist joined
[04:26] *** warriors_ joined
[04:35] *** warriors_ left
[04:35] *** warriors_ joined
[04:37] *** warriors_ left
[04:38] *** warriors joined
[04:39] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:40] *** cpan-p6 left
[04:40] *** cpan-p6 joined
[04:55] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[05:04] *** warriors left
[05:05] *** robertle left
[05:20] *** sauvin joined
[05:37] *** wamba joined
[05:46] *** jimtron left
[05:47] *** jimtron joined
[06:24] *** wamba left
[06:28] *** reach_satori left
[06:49] *** camelia left
[06:50] <nine> AlexDaniel: done

[06:51] *** molaf joined
[06:51] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[06:53] *** domidumont joined
[07:04] *** wamba joined
[07:14] *** discord6 joined
[07:15] *** sena_kun joined
[07:18] *** releasable6 left
[07:18] *** releasable6 joined
[07:18] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v releasable6

[07:20] *** kensanata joined
[07:20] *** sivoais_ joined
[07:26] *** hankache joined
[07:26] *** pmurias left
[07:33] *** cinch left
[07:47] *** bbkr joined
[07:49] *** scimon joined
[07:53] *** hankache left
[08:05] *** dakkar joined
[08:08] *** pmurias joined
[08:09] *** jimtron left
[08:14] *** bbkr left
[08:19] *** jimtron joined
[08:27] *** molaf left
[08:32] *** epony joined
[08:33] *** cinch joined
[08:42] *** sena_kun left
[09:05] *** xinming_ joined
[09:08] *** xinming left
[09:17] *** pmurias left
[09:24] *** domidumont left
[09:25] *** reach_satori joined
[09:44] *** pmurias joined
[09:49] *** cinch left
[10:04] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[10:07] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[10:08] *** Sgeo__ joined
[10:11] *** Sgeo_ left
[10:14] *** cxreg left
[10:40] *** pmurias left
[10:43] *** cxreg joined
[10:46] *** wamba left
[10:48] *** cinch joined
[10:51] *** wamba joined
[10:52] *** jimtron left
[10:55] *** pmurias joined
[11:01] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[11:18] *** reach_satori left
[11:18] *** reach_satori_ joined
[11:38] *** diegok joined
[11:42] *** shareable6 joined
[11:59] *** finanalyst_ joined
[12:03] *** Guest93 joined
[12:11] *** domidumont joined
[12:16] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:16] *** aborazmeh left
[12:16] *** aborazmeh joined
[12:19] *** reach_satori_ left
[12:19] *** reach_satori_ joined
[12:21] *** wamba1 joined
[12:25] *** gabiruh left
[12:26] *** wamba left
[12:26] *** gabiruh joined
[12:37] <AlexDaniel> samcv: any way to know the currently supported unicode version?

[12:37] <AlexDaniel> samcv: btw you might want to join #raku and #raku-dev :)

[12:40] *** wamba1 left
[12:45] <AlexDaniel> samcv: I had to do this but it's ugly: https://github.com/cygx/p6-unicode-gcb/pull/2/files#diff-7f9f03e75ccc74edcfd47742bf6d0604R15

[12:45] <AlexDaniel> especially given that 2019.10 is not released yet

[12:45] *** pmurias left
[12:45] *** __jrjsmrtn__ joined
[12:46] *** aborazmeh left
[12:46] *** _jrjsmrtn left
[12:50] *** cinch left
[12:57] *** pmurias joined
[13:02] *** aborazmeh joined
[13:02] *** aborazmeh left
[13:02] *** aborazmeh joined
[13:05] *** wamba joined
[13:18] *** ChoHag left
[13:20] *** wamba left
[13:21] *** cinch joined
[13:37] *** molaf joined
[13:39] *** aborazmeh left
[13:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::Gtk3::Glade (0.8.8) by 03MARTIMM

[13:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::N (0.13.8) by 03MARTIMM

[13:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::Gtk3 (0.18.5) by 03MARTIMM

[13:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::GObject (0.14.7) by 03MARTIMM

[13:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::Glib (0.14.4) by 03MARTIMM

[13:41] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::Gdk3 (0.14.11) by 03MARTIMM

[13:42] *** Cabanossi left
[13:49] *** reach_satori_ left
[13:50] *** lucasb joined
[13:54] *** Cabanossi joined
[14:01] <AlexDaniel> cpan-p6: help

[14:01] <AlexDaniel> uhhh‚Ä¶

[14:02] <tyil> it has no help :(

[14:02] <AlexDaniel> tyil: is it your bot though?

[14:02] <tyil> yes

[14:02] <AlexDaniel> tyil: can you rakufy it?

[14:02] <tyil> yes

[14:02] *** scimon left
[14:03] <tyil> do you want just the name to be altered? CPAN is still CPAN to us, even in Raku times, right?

[14:04] <AlexDaniel> tyil: yeah, it's still cpan. I don't care that much about -p6 part, but it could renamed to cpan-raku easily, I guess

[14:04] <AlexDaniel> tyil: also, where's the source code for it?

[14:04] <tyil> https://gitlab.com/tyil/app-cpan-uploadannouncer-irc

[14:04] <AlexDaniel> tyil: I found this but the cert is self-signed: https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadannouncer-irc

[14:06] <AlexDaniel> eh, that's a lot of files‚Ä¶

[14:06] <AlexDaniel> and not a lot of code‚Ä¶

[14:07] *** cpan-p6 left
[14:08] *** cpan-raku_ joined
[14:08] *** cpan-raku_ left
[14:08] *** cpan-raku_ joined
[14:12] <tyil> you can safely ignore all the files not related to raku code

[14:12] * tyil shrugs

[14:12] <AlexDaniel> tyil: how does it work, btw? So there's a DB somewhere which you can query?

[14:12] <tyil> yes

[14:13] <tyil> I have two services running to get updates from nntp and cpan itself to find new modules, those are put in a db

[14:13] <tyil> I had to set it up like that because people got upset about not having updates when nntp was down

[14:14] *** Guest93 left
[14:14] <tyil> so I made it so I'm no longer dependant on a single source of information, and the bot just checks the DB every minute for additions

[14:14] *** Guest93 joined
[14:14] <AlexDaniel> tyil: so the db is yours?

[14:14] <tyil> yes

[14:15] <AlexDaniel> it just sorta hurts me that there's whateverable which takes care of a lot of stuff (case in point: help messages), it's well documented and well tested, and it has consistent interface across all the bots

[14:15] <AlexDaniel> but people keep creating bots from scratch, which is probably fine if your project is large-ish, but then I open the source and see a bunch of files each less than 50 lines‚Ä¶

[14:16] <tyil> I mean, I'm not creating it "from scratch", I'm using IRC::Client

[14:16] <AlexDaniel> which whateverable also does, but it adds all sorts of goodies on top

[14:17] <tyil> I'm not saying it doesn't, I'm saying that your "from scratch" sentiment is incorrect

[14:17] <AlexDaniel> sure, but if you want to have a nice bot then you'd need to reimplement many whateverable features exactly from scratch

[14:17] <AlexDaniel> but whatever, just add a help message please

[14:18] <AlexDaniel> that points to the source

[14:18] <tyil> .bots

[14:18] <cpan-raku_> 03cpan-raku_:121.0.1 (2019-04-12T16:14:21Z) reporting for duty! [Perl 6] 02https://git.tyil.nl/perl6/app-cpan-uploadannouncer-irc

[14:18] <tyil> that needs updating, I see

[14:18] <tyil> but .bots is the de-facto standard for bots to show their source

[14:18] <AlexDaniel> you've got to be kidding me

[14:18] <tyil> so I'm kindof amazed that Whateverable doesn't do it

[14:18] <tyil> when you ewre just saying how great it is

[14:18] <AlexDaniel> you realize what's going to happen when all bots answer that?

[14:19] <tyil> yes, but that doesn't take away that *that*'s a de facto standard across bots all over the world

[14:19] <tyil> even if you don't like it

[14:19] * AlexDaniel facepalms

[14:19] <AlexDaniel> it's not that I don't like it, there's no way I'm adding that

[14:19] <tyil> if you want to argue standardized features, don't pretend the rest of the world doesn't have standards already

[14:19] <AlexDaniel> mst: send help please

[14:20] <tyil> I'm not sure why you're getting this upset over something this trivial

[14:20] <AlexDaniel> I won't add a feature that will make my bots K-lines immediately, wtf

[14:20] <tyil> it's an irc bot that I made for fun (and because the other one was actually down)

[14:20] <mst> .bots is not a de-facto standard, is a stupid idea, and is going to be Sigyn bait

[14:21] <tyil> not some enterprise project I'm making for my manager who has all sorts of wacky ideas about what's good and what's not

[14:21] <tyil> you asked me to make a change, I made it almsot immediately

[14:21] <tyil> if you have other requests for changes, you can just ask for them all the same, no?

[14:21] <AlexDaniel> yes, thank you for that. If you can add `help` command that'd be wonderful too

[14:22] <tyil> not sure why you need to make up a story about standards, and do facepalming and all that stuff you did afterwards

[14:22] <tyil> I'll add it to my list of things

[14:23] <mst> AlexDaniel: perlish people? reinventing things? say it ain't so

[14:23] <AlexDaniel> I'm just saying that whateverables are packed with useful features, are well documented and well tested, have consistent interface, and are easy to maintain

[14:23] <kawaii> .bots lmao is that a joke

[14:23] <tyil> AlexDaniel: to you, perhaps

[14:24] <AlexDaniel> and it'd be better if people were creating bots based on whateverable instead of rolling their own

[14:24] *** telex joined
[14:24] <tyil> mst: sygin being a bad, triggerhappy bot isn't my fault *shrug*

[14:25] <AlexDaniel> alright alright enough :S

[14:26] *** molaf left
[14:26] <AlexDaniel> to be fair whateverable codebase is not the prettiest, but whenever I improve it I do so for all the bots at the same time‚Ä¶

[14:26] <mst> with the number of bots we have, it would spam the fuck out of the channel in a way that would make any competent chanop trigger happy as well

[14:26] <tyil> if a chanop doesn't know its own bot count, I don't think the word "competent" applies

[14:27] <Grinnz> .bots is nonsense

[14:27] <Grinnz> sorry but no irc bot i have ever seen does that

[14:27] <mst> normally I'd expect a bot to respond to 'help' or 'source'

[14:27] <mst> preferably both

[14:27] <AlexDaniel> bisectable6: source

[14:27] <bisectable6> AlexDaniel, https://github.com/perl6/whateverable

[14:27] <tyil> dozens upon dozens of bots I've seen do that

[14:27] <AlexDaniel> committable6: help

[14:27] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Like this: committable6: f583f22,HEAD say ‚Äòhello‚Äô; say ‚Äòworld‚Äô # See wiki for more examples: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Committable

[14:27] <AlexDaniel> evalable6: uptime

[14:27] <evalable6> AlexDaniel, 3 days, 15 hours, 27 minutes, and 24 seconds, 358.566406MiB maxrss. This is Rakudo version 2019.07.1-94-gd1f9d2848 built on MoarVM version 2019.07.1-50-gb614a7b4d implementing Perl 6.d.

[14:27] <tyil> across all sorts of networks

[14:28] <tyil> maybe it's not popular on gratisnode

[14:28] <AlexDaniel> thank you, evalable6

[14:28] <evalable6> AlexDaniel, It's my pleasure!

[14:28] <tyil> maybe if you'd be a bit less of a dick about it I'd just remove it if it's unwanted

[14:28] *** wamba joined
[14:28] <mst> hey, look, I managed to guess the actual commands available first time

[14:28] <mst> because those are the actual standards

[14:29] <tyil> it's not that hard, I've generally been pretty responsive fixing stuff in my services

[14:29] <AlexDaniel> don't remove it if we don't have a replacement

[14:29] <tyil> mst: being an asshat about it won't resolve any issues here

[14:29] <tyil> I'd suggest trying to be constructive

[14:29] <mst> that was a point about standards being what people expect them to be

[14:30] <pmurias> https://gist.github.com/pmurias/7f5b9e2fffa4544f7a3be2fad8ec5608 - any feeback on my rakudo.js tutorial?

[14:30] <tyil> alright, no talking point trying to talk to you

[14:30] <Grinnz> AlexDaniel: there is no need to make people use the same bot framework. tyil: please stop peddling this nonsense as standard

[14:30] <tyil> Grinnz: except it actually is de facto standard, but as I said, I can just remove it

[14:30] <Grinnz> it's not

[14:31] <mst> it's not

[14:31] <tyil> i've seen more bots supporting it than not

[14:31] <Grinnz> and it's a bad idea, more importantly

[14:31] <mst> exactly

[14:31] *** warriors joined
[14:31] <tyil> I can see it being a bad idea, and again, not being dicks about just asking for its removal with reasons would have made me remove it already

[14:31] *** molaf joined
[14:31] <Grinnz> i'm not saying people havent been being dicks, but you're also exaggerating that

[14:31] <tyil> instead, I'm having to discuss pointless stuff in an irc channel that I only responded in to fix something that was just kindly asked of me

[14:31] <mst> alex was being perfectly polite until you started being a dick

[14:32] <tyil> alright, I guess there's nothing to be discussed or solved then

[14:32] <tyil> have a good day

[14:32] <mst> tyil: .bots is a terrible idea, and 'source' and 'help' are better, please implement those instead to fit with the way the rest of the perlish bots work

[14:32] <tyil> I'll gladly take another look tomorrow, when people can behave a bit better

[14:35] <Guest93> I am very impressed and really disappointed by how unconstructive and rude raku community is, especially given it's people, who are core developers or close to it. AlexDaniel, Grinnz, mst, the way you handle conversation requires a lot of improvement.

[14:35] <Grinnz> ü§®

[14:36] <AlexDaniel> Guest93: yeah, that's true

[14:37] <mst> Guest93: I keep forgetting that tyil's high offence / low defence

[14:37] <mst> being high offence / high defence it's a failure mode of mine

[14:40] *** molaf left
[14:44] <AlexDaniel> Guest93: you see, we're still trying to recover from the infra fallout we had, it's not fun

[14:44] <AlexDaniel> Guest93: which is why you see snarky remarks from me sometimes

[14:44] <kensanata> Nevertheless, communications could have been better all around.

[14:45] <AlexDaniel> nobody is arguing that, I hope

[14:45] <Guest93> Agree with kensanata, that is not an excuse.

[14:48] <discord6> <RaycatWhoDat> While it's not an excuse, branding the whole community as rude and unconstructive during a low point is a bit of a broad stroke.

[14:49] <Guest93> RaycatWhoDat It is indeed, i'll limit my statement to the persons mentioned above.

[14:50] *** wamba left
[14:52] <AlexDaniel> Guest93: now it's extremely personal :D

[14:52] <AlexDaniel> but yeah, that's ok :)

[14:53] <mst> tyil is extremely smart and highly productive. also young, angry, and easily offended. it makes for an interesting set of social challenges.

[15:01] *** sena_kun joined
[15:04] <nine> In my experience, getting such feedback is a good time to evaluate my own behaviour, regardless of whether I feel that it should be directed at me or not

[15:07] *** pmurias left
[15:09] <timotimo> i would imagine .bots would be less problematic if the bots would respond in privmsg instead of in the channel?

[15:10] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: if you have just a few bots then maybe

[15:11] <timotimo> actually, notice at the user would be better than privmsg, if other clients behave like weechat does, which is put notices in the same buffer

[15:11] <timotimo> otherwise you suddenly have thirty new query windows open

[15:11] <AlexDaniel> can somebody /notice me? I'm not sure I even see them‚Ä¶

[15:11] <timotimo> sent one

[15:12] <AlexDaniel> yeah, I'd never notice that‚Ä¶

[15:12] <tadzik> :D

[15:12] <tadzik> ironic

[15:12] <AlexDaniel> they appear in the main server window

[15:12] <tadzik> but, if you expected it...?

[15:12] <timotimo> if it's an answer to a query, and you expect a notice to happen, then surely you could

[15:12] <AlexDaniel> erc-- :(

[15:12] <timotimo> i can totally see why you'd want a command that gets every bot on the channel to self-identify, though spamming it in the chat directly seems very bothersome

[15:13] <timotimo> especially if it's a whateverable, which sometimes stop reacting entirely when some task is being performed

[15:13] <timotimo> which we should probably do something about :) :)

[15:13] <tadzik> what if you had a meta-bot, which all the other bots would privmsg and then the meta-bot only sends one message to the main channel? ;)

[15:13] <Grinnz> unfortunately irc client handling of notices is entirely arbitrary, and as a lesser used feature it's unreliable

[15:13] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: it's already fixed for long-running commands :)

[15:13] <AlexDaniel> committable6: sleep 10

[15:13] <AlexDaniel> committable6: help

[15:13] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Like this: committable6: f583f22,HEAD say ‚Äòhello‚Äô; say ‚Äòworld‚Äô # See wiki for more examples: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Committable

[15:13] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¬¶sleep: ¬´Cannot find this revision (did you mean ‚Äúall‚Äù?)¬ª

[15:13] <timotimo> cool

[15:13] <AlexDaniel> committable6: HEAD sleep 10

[15:13] <AlexDaniel> committable6: help

[15:13] <committable6> AlexDaniel, Like this: committable6: f583f22,HEAD say ‚Äòhello‚Äô; say ‚Äòworld‚Äô # See wiki for more examples: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Committable

[15:13] <Grinnz> at some point it was intended that all bots would respond in notices, but this is just impractical

[15:13] <committable6> AlexDaniel, ¬¶HEAD(f3dda96): ¬´¬´timed out after 10 seconds¬ª ¬´exit signal = SIGHUP (1)¬ª¬ª

[15:14] <AlexDaniel> that I see

[15:14] <AlexDaniel> right here

[15:14] <timotimo> this shows up on the channel, yeah?

[15:14] <tadzik> yup

[15:14] <AlexDaniel> and I totally didn't know you could do that

[15:14] <Grinnz> just as spammy as privmsg to the channel, though

[15:14] <timotimo> it's at least a common trait of a message that you can use /ignore with

[15:14] *** Sgeo_ joined
[15:15] <timotimo> do you call it impractical because no bot currently does it and you wouldn't get every bot to switch at the same time

[15:15] <timotimo> or some other reason?

[15:15] <Grinnz> because of irc client handling

[15:15] <timotimo> oh, did you mean respond to the user in a notice, or respond to the channel in a notice?

[15:15] <Grinnz> we have to work with what irc clients do, and for this they don't do the same thing

[15:16] <Grinnz> that was regarding user notices

[15:18] *** Sgeo__ left
[15:20] *** cpan-raku_ left
[15:21] *** cpan-raku joined
[15:21] *** cpan-raku left
[15:21] *** cpan-raku joined
[15:21] <timotimo> hm, do jabber clients implement any pubsub stuff apart from "now playing" state nowadays?

[15:23] *** robertle joined
[15:29] <timotimo> surely everything that's wrong with irc could be fixed by re-imagining it as a publish/subscribe model!

[15:29] <timotimo> with XML

[15:30] <mst> s/XML/JSON/ # matrix

[15:31] <timotimo> i have actually not yet looked at matrix a lot yet

[15:32] <tadzik> it's quite nice, but a lot broader in scope than IRC or XMPP

[15:33] <AlexDaniel> while we're at it, can somebody explain where should I register if I wanna use mastodon? In case of matrix I just selfhost my own server, but doing that for mastodon doesn't make much sense, right?

[15:33] <tadzik> it makes the same sense really

[15:34] <tadzik> but it's much easier (as in: it's possible :P) to migrate your account between mastodon instances

[15:34] <timotimo> yeah, single-user instances are fine on mastodon

[15:34] <tadzik> so no harm in going for something popular to try it out

[15:34] <timotimo> i was on mastodon.social for a long time, then switched over to scifi.fyi, then scifi.fyi died :(

[15:34] <tadzik> :(

[15:34] <tadzik> I'm still on .social, procrastinating my moving away from it

[15:34] <timotimo> i haven't posted on masto for a long time

[15:36] <timotimo> but i was an "early" adopter :P

[15:37] <timotimo> looks like feb 17 2017 is the earliest post i can find

[15:37] <AlexDaniel> there's no debian package :(

[15:37] <AlexDaniel> now I remember why I didn't do it earlier‚Ä¶

[15:38] <timotimo> not a big fan of containerized stuff?

[15:38] <timotimo> a mastodon instance does have many individual parts

[15:38] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: it's not that I'm not a fan, I just never did that

[15:38] <AlexDaniel> so let's say I'm a fan, then what should I do?

[15:39] <AlexDaniel> there's like official docker something?

[15:39] <tadzik> give it a try, it's addictive and it's free

[15:39] <timotimo> i haven't tried it myself but there does appear to be https://hub.docker.com/r/tootsuite/mastodon/

[15:39] <tadzik> not sure if official, but https://hub.docker.com/r/tootsuite/mastodon/ is looking legit

[15:53] *** hankache joined
[15:59] <Ulti> SmokeMachine: thanks I'll look into this tonight

[16:01] *** reach_satori joined
[16:03] *** gnufr33dom joined
[16:18] <El_Che> (obligatory warning about running random 3rd party images; you're running them as root)

[16:20] <El_Che> (and about the discussion, this is #perl6, people are more polite on #raku ;P )

[16:26] *** wamba joined
[16:33] *** dakkar left
[16:33] *** finanalyst_ left
[16:34] *** kensanata left
[16:37] *** wildtrees joined
[16:37] *** wildtrees left
[16:38] *** wildtrees joined
[16:39] *** wildtrees left
[16:40] *** wildtrees joined
[16:46] *** finanalyst_ joined
[16:47] *** sftp joined
[16:55] *** chloekek joined
[16:57] *** Sgeo__ joined
[17:01] *** Sgeo_ left
[17:04] *** Xliff joined
[17:17] *** finanalyst_ left
[17:22] *** mensvaga joined
[17:24] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: it's an interesting idea, when someone is not being nice we can tell them to go to #perl6

[17:26] *** sno joined
[17:27] <tadzik> I remember times when #perl6 was being recommended as a nice and friendly place

[17:28] <AlexDaniel> tadzik: right! But that's now #raku

[17:33] *** domidumont left
[17:45] *** hankache left
[17:45] *** hankache joined
[18:09] *** hankache left
[18:13] *** MasterDuke joined
[18:21] *** pecastro joined
[18:24] *** krychu joined
[18:28] *** sauvin left
[18:42] *** Cabanossi left
[18:49] *** reportable6 joined
[18:49] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[18:50] *** Cabanossi joined
[18:50] *** guifa joined
[18:55] *** khisanth_ left
[19:01] *** finanalyst_ joined
[19:08] *** khisanth_ joined
[19:25] *** sena_kun left
[19:30] *** mensvaga left
[19:52] *** wamba left
[19:55] *** molaf joined
[20:05] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[20:21] *** chloekek left
[20:34] *** molaf left
[20:56] *** moon_child left
[21:01] *** moon_child joined
[21:17] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[21:38] *** patrickb joined
[21:43] *** netrino joined
[22:08] *** brass_ joined
[22:08] *** finanalyst_ left
[22:34] *** patrickb left
[22:37] *** pecastro left
[22:38] *** epony left
[22:40] *** epony joined
[22:42] *** sivoais_ left
[22:42] *** sivoais joined
[22:50] *** krychu left
[22:56] *** Xliff left
[23:04] *** wildtrees left
[23:06] *** MasterDuke left
[23:22] *** netrino left
