[00:00] *** reportable6 left
[00:03] *** reportable6 joined
[00:03] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[00:18] *** vrurg left
[00:19] *** vrurg joined
[00:20] *** Cabanossi left
[00:21] *** Actualeyes left
[00:23] *** aborazmeh joined
[00:23] *** aborazmeh left
[00:23] *** aborazmeh joined
[00:25] *** Cabanossi joined
[00:25] *** Sgeo_ left
[00:28] *** daxim left
[00:34] *** [particle] joined
[00:35] *** wildtrees left
[00:36] *** [particle]1 left
[00:37] *** daxim joined
[00:39] *** Sgeo joined
[00:44] *** mowcat left
[00:47] *** [particle]1 joined
[00:47] *** [particle] left
[00:57] *** jaldhar_ joined
[01:01] *** [particle] joined
[01:03] *** [particle]1 left
[01:07] *** jaldhar joined
[01:08] *** jaldhar_ left
[01:15] *** [particle] left
[01:18] *** MasterDuke left
[01:21] *** [particle] joined
[01:26] *** jaldhar_ joined
[01:27] *** jaldhar_ left
[01:28] *** jaldhar_ joined
[01:29] *** jaldhar left
[01:41] *** [particle] left
[01:49] *** [particle] joined
[01:50] *** pilne left
[01:55] *** lembark left
[01:58] *** gdonald left
[02:00] *** aborazmeh left
[02:00] *** molaf left
[02:02] *** [particle] left
[02:03] *** [particle] joined
[02:04] *** Manifest0 left
[02:05] *** Manifest0 joined
[02:07] *** jaldhar_ left
[02:08] *** jaldhar_ joined
[02:10] *** [particle] left
[02:13] *** molaf joined
[02:21] *** Cabanoss- joined
[02:22] *** Cabanossi left
[02:22] *** Cabanoss- is now known as Cabanossi

[02:34] *** uid9164 joined
[02:34] <uid9164> PHP 7.1.4 (cli) (built: Apr 11 2017 19:54:37) ( ZTS MSVC14 (Visual C++ 2015) x64 )

[02:35] <uid9164> <code> while ($a <= 1000000000) { $c += ($a * 2) % 3; $a += 1;}

[02:35] <uid9164> This code consumes 51 secs on perl6 while 54 secs on php 7.1

[02:36] <uid9164> Much beyond my expect

[02:41] *** uzl joined
[02:41] <uzl> o/

[02:42] <uzl> There are several YAML modules in the ecosystem so a PR could be send for their inclusion in https://yaml.org/.

[02:53] *** jaldhar_ left
[02:54] *** jaldhar_ joined
[02:59] *** [particle] joined
[03:12] *** mingdao joined
[03:13] *** jaldhar_ left
[03:14] *** jaldhar_ joined
[03:17] *** jaldhar_ left
[03:18] *** jaldhar_ joined
[03:20] *** jaldhar joined
[03:23] *** jaldhar_ left
[03:24] *** [particle]1 joined
[03:25] *** [particle] left
[03:27] *** [particle] joined
[03:27] *** jaldhar left
[03:27] *** [particle]1 left
[03:28] *** jaldhar joined
[03:31] *** [particle]1 joined
[03:31] *** jaldhar left
[03:32] *** jaldhar joined
[03:33] *** jaldhar left
[03:34] *** jaldhar joined
[03:34] *** [particle] left
[03:35] *** jaldhar left
[03:36] *** jaldhar joined
[03:43] *** jaldhar left
[03:44] *** jaldhar joined
[03:46] *** uzl left
[03:46] *** uid9164 left
[03:47] *** jaldhar left
[03:48] *** jaldhar joined
[03:49] *** jaldhar left
[03:50] *** jaldhar joined
[03:51] *** jaldhar left
[03:52] *** jaldhar joined
[03:57] *** jaldhar left
[03:58] *** jaldhar joined
[03:59] *** jaldhar left
[04:00] *** jaldhar joined
[04:03] *** jaldhar left
[04:04] *** jaldhar joined
[04:05] *** jaldhar left
[04:06] *** jaldhar joined
[04:10] *** jaldhar left
[04:10] *** jaldhar joined
[04:11] *** jaldhar left
[04:12] *** jaldhar joined
[04:13] *** jaldhar left
[04:14] *** jaldhar joined
[04:17] *** jaldhar left
[04:18] *** jaldhar joined
[04:19] *** jaldhar left
[04:20] *** jaldhar joined
[04:21] <irced> hey jaldhar

[04:21] *** jaldhar left
[04:22] *** jaldhar joined
[04:25] *** jaldhar left
[04:26] *** jaldhar joined
[04:27] *** jaldhar left
[04:28] *** jaldhar joined
[04:29] *** jaldhar left
[04:30] *** jaldhar joined
[04:33] *** jaldhar left
[04:34] *** jaldhar joined
[04:35] *** jaldhar left
[04:36] *** jaldhar joined
[04:37] *** jaldhar left
[04:38] *** jaldhar joined
[04:39] *** jaldhar left
[04:40] *** jaldhar joined
[04:45] *** jaldhar left
[04:46] *** jaldhar joined
[04:46] *** curan joined
[04:46] *** molaf left
[04:47] *** jaldhar left
[04:48] *** jaldhar joined
[04:48] *** mingdao left
[04:49] *** jaldhar left
[04:50] *** Sgeo left
[04:50] *** jaldhar joined
[04:50] *** Sgeo joined
[04:53] *** jaldhar left
[04:54] *** jaldhar joined
[04:59] *** pamplemousse joined
[04:59] *** Poohman joined
[05:05] *** jaldhar left
[05:06] *** jaldhar joined
[05:07] *** jaldhar left
[05:08] *** jaldhar joined
[05:09] *** jaldhar left
[05:10] *** jaldhar joined
[05:11] *** jaldhar left
[05:12] *** jaldhar joined
[05:13] *** jaldhar left
[05:14] *** jaldhar joined
[05:17] *** jaldhar left
[05:18] *** jaldhar joined
[05:19] *** jaldhar left
[05:20] *** jaldhar joined
[05:21] *** jaldhar left
[05:22] *** jaldhar joined
[05:25] *** sauvin joined
[05:25] *** jaldhar left
[05:26] *** jaldhar joined
[05:29] *** jaldhar left
[05:30] *** jaldhar joined
[05:31] *** jaldhar left
[05:32] *** jaldhar joined
[05:33] *** jaldhar left
[05:34] *** jaldhar joined
[05:53] *** jaldhar left
[05:54] *** jaldhar joined
[06:00] *** reportable6 left
[06:03] *** reportable6 joined
[06:07] *** jaldhar left
[06:08] *** jaldhar joined
[06:11] *** jaldhar left
[06:12] *** jaldhar joined
[06:17] *** jaldhar left
[06:18] *** jaldhar joined
[06:23] *** jaldhar left
[06:24] *** jaldhar joined
[06:25] *** jaldhar left
[06:26] *** jaldhar joined
[06:40] *** rainmanjam joined
[06:45] *** jaldhar left
[06:46] *** jaldhar joined
[06:52] *** MasterDuke joined
[06:53] *** jaldhar left
[06:54] *** jaldhar joined
[06:55] *** jaldhar left
[06:56] *** jaldhar joined
[06:57] *** jaldhar left
[06:58] *** jaldhar joined
[07:01] *** jaldhar left
[07:02] *** jaldhar joined
[07:02] *** kylese joined
[07:04] *** kensanata joined
[07:08] *** bgummala joined
[07:08] <bgummala> Hi 

[07:08] <bgummala> I am trying to write a server program in perl 

[07:08] <bgummala> and client side coding in tcl 

[07:08] <bgummala> but the client is not getting connected to server 

[07:09] *** jaldhar left
[07:10] *** jaldhar joined
[07:10] *** [Sno] left
[07:13] <bgummala> hi

[07:14] *** bgummala left
[07:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:16] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:16] *** cpan-p6 left
[07:16] *** cpan-p6 joined
[07:21] *** jaldhar left
[07:22] *** jaldhar joined
[07:25] *** jaldhar left
[07:26] *** jaldhar joined
[07:29] *** kensanata left
[07:29] *** jaldhar left
[07:30] *** jaldhar joined
[07:32] *** snarkyboojum__ left
[07:32] *** robertle left
[07:33] *** pamplemousse left
[07:35] *** jaldhar left
[07:36] *** jaldhar joined
[07:41] *** Sgeo_ joined
[07:43] *** rindolf joined
[07:44] *** Sgeo left
[07:45] *** ravenousmoose left
[07:46] *** ravenousmoose joined
[07:48] *** Sgeo__ joined
[07:50] <MasterDuke> bgummala: what protocol are you using to communicate?

[07:51] <timotimo> they're already gone :(

[07:51] *** Sgeo_ left
[07:54] *** robertle joined
[07:56] <tyil> wonder if this'll fix my zef issue being unable to install stuff

[07:57] <tyil> if I add openssh-client to the image, I get a different error on missing curl/wget/pswebrequest

[07:57] <tyil> so I'm compiling a new image that contains openssh-client, git curl and wget

[07:57] *** jaldhar left
[07:58] *** jaldhar joined
[08:00] *** sena_kun joined
[08:02] *** zakharyas joined
[08:04] *** chloekek joined
[08:09] *** vrurg left
[08:09] *** vrurg joined
[08:11] *** jaldhar left
[08:12] *** jaldhar joined
[08:14] *** dolmen joined
[08:23] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 6b444bd896 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[08:23] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Remove mention of "Velvet Divorce"

[08:23] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/6b444bd896

[08:28] *** scimon joined
[08:31] *** jaldhar left
[08:32] *** jaldhar joined
[08:35] *** jaldhar left
[08:36] *** jaldhar joined
[08:41] <tyil> heh

[08:41] *** jaldhar left
[08:41] <tyil> I wonder what the reason is for zef to use ~/.zef/tmp, in stead of using $TMP for tempfiles

[08:42] *** jaldhar joined
[08:52] <SmokeMachine> is there any reason to not store the function code inside of its object?

[08:52] <SmokeMachine> m: sub bla { "ret" }.perl.say

[08:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: «sub bla { #`(Sub|78466296) ... }␤»

[08:56] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, while not answering the question, why would you want it to?

[08:57] *** jaldhar left
[08:57] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: I'm thinking on how to make Red help users on doing migrations... so, my cli could load the model, change what it should and copy the methods code...

[08:58] *** jaldhar joined
[08:59] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, you mean DB->code migration or code->DB?

[08:59] *** nepugia joined
[08:59] *** mniip left
[08:59] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: I mean the stage to change the code that will do the DB migration...

[09:01] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: something like this: https://github.com/FCO/Red/issues/15#issuecomment-514524933

[09:01] *** mniip joined
[09:03] *** [particle] joined
[09:04] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, sorry, no idea how to help. :/

[09:04] *** [particle]1 left
[09:05] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: but can you see anything terribly wrong on having the code on the function object?

[09:05] *** nepugia left
[09:06] *** rindolf left
[09:06] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, I think that 1)code objects are closures, so if you try to EVAL it from other scope without closed lexicals it'll go bad quickly

[09:06] *** kylese left
[09:06] <sena_kun> maybe there are also reasons 2) and 3), but I can't think of something immediately

[09:07] *** jaldhar left
[09:08] *** jaldhar joined
[09:08] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: but I can use it without EVALing...

[09:09] <sena_kun> SmokeMachine, yes, if you are just e.g. printing it, shouldn't be a problem, I just think that people might do it this way, though, well, that doesn't really seems like an excuse to me.

[09:10] *** Sgeo_ joined
[09:10] <SmokeMachine> sena_kun: one example, javascript has it...

[09:11] *** jaldhar left
[09:12] *** mowcat joined
[09:12] *** jaldhar joined
[09:12] *** mowcat left
[09:13] *** Sgeo__ left
[09:16] *** [particle] left
[09:17] *** jaldhar_ joined
[09:18] *** jaldhar left
[09:20] *** [particle] joined
[09:23] *** ZhanBB left
[09:23] *** jaldhar_ left
[09:24] *** jaldhar_ joined
[09:31] *** jaldhar_ left
[09:32] *** jaldhar_ joined
[09:34] *** [particle] left
[09:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: 22c20c6a95 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | CREDITS

[09:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: Remove obsolete pumpking mention

[09:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: 

[09:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/636ddcdb543ec8aa592ef20eabf693889c1e3e53

[09:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/22c20c6a95

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: 65f0e414d2 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | CREDITS

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: Remove obsolete pumpking mention

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: 

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/636ddcdb543ec8aa592ef20eabf693889c1e3e53

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/65f0e414d2

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: 6cbc871fa1 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | 0 files

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: Merge branch 'master' into raku

[09:37] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/6cbc871fa1

[09:40] *** MasterDuke left
[09:40] *** [particle] joined
[09:40] *** Black_Ribbon left
[09:43] *** jaldhar_ left
[09:44] *** jaldhar_ joined
[09:48] *** irced left
[09:52] *** kylese joined
[09:55] *** MasterDuke joined
[09:55] *** jaldhar_ left
[09:56] *** jaldhar_ joined
[09:57] *** jaldhar_ left
[09:58] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:01] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:02] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:09] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:10] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:11] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:12] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:13] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:14] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:19] *** rindolf joined
[10:21] *** Kaiepi left
[10:21] *** Kaiepi joined
[10:21] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:22] *** chloekek left
[10:22] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:29] *** MasterDuke left
[10:31] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:32] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:37] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 0b5402e1de | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[10:37] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: The P and 6 in Camelia are not an issue, but a tribute

[10:37] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/0b5402e1de

[10:39] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: d71dc5cf60 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[10:39] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: s/.code/.raku/

[10:39] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 

[10:39] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: As some classes already have a .code method, and this would be a collision.

[10:39] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/d71dc5cf60

[10:39] *** gregf_ joined
[10:41] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:42] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:44] <tadzik> ah, I hoped .code would stay to make us future-proof for futher renames ;)

[10:47] *** jaldhar_ left
[10:48] *** jaldhar_ joined
[10:48] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: bf7ab7839b | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[10:48] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention what to do with IRC channels

[10:48] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/bf7ab7839b

[10:49] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: e5c5d42930 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[10:49] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention channel forwarding

[10:49] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/e5c5d42930

[10:52] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 7d0aab8eed | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[10:52] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: "rakudo" should be the main executable

[10:52] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/7d0aab8eed

[10:55] *** Sgeo__ joined
[10:58] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: a79dde05a3 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[10:58] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: .pod6 to become .rd

[10:58] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/a79dde05a3

[10:58] *** Sgeo_ left
[10:59] <lizmat> tadzik: what I've written is not law, it's just how I see it now and the document is a reflection of that

[10:59] * lizmat goes into seeing what .code currently does

[11:00] <tadzik> lizmat: I'm just kidding ;)

[11:01] <tadzik> I quite like the new filenames

[11:02] <AlexDaniel> the filenames are great, yeah

[11:03] <lizmat> wrt to .code versus .raku, I'm more worried about confusion with the .codes methods 

[11:03] <lizmat> m: dd "abc".codes

[11:03] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: «3␤»

[11:04] <lizmat> so going to stick with .raku for now

[11:04] *** zakharyas left
[11:04] <AlexDaniel> well, .codes is weird by itself

[11:04] <AlexDaniel> like, it's a very short name for a feature that's not used all that often

[11:04] <AlexDaniel> and wouldn't .codepoints be more readable?

[11:05] <AlexDaniel> but whatever, here I am wanting to change everything again :)

[11:05] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: I actually love .rd

[11:09] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 1ee09085fc | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[11:09] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Special attention to non-latin script countries

[11:09] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 

[11:09] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Specifically for the announcement of Raku

[11:09] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/1ee09085fc

[11:09] *** pamplemousse joined
[11:11] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:12] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:12] <AlexDaniel> greppable6: codes

[11:13] <greppable6> AlexDaniel, 878 lines, 141 modules: https://gist.github.com/ddc8de5f4e7cc6da24cce6f5b3610976

[11:13] <lizmat> greppable: \.codes

[11:13] <greppable6> lizmat, 78 lines, 19 modules: https://gist.github.com/07114229fded5158fcc9e8cf277f6ade

[11:13] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: ^^

[11:14] <lizmat> still quite a lot

[11:14] <AlexDaniel> that's really not a lot of use

[11:16] <AlexDaniel> cro ones are in js files, then there's a bunch of stuff in pdf module, some in docs. And then a little bit of everywhere

[11:17] <AlexDaniel> I think a soft deprecation is a possibility for deconfusing .code and .codes if we want to go with that

[11:17] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:17] *** dolmen left
[11:18] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:19] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:20] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:21] *** Cabanossi left
[11:21] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:22] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:23] *** mniip_ joined
[11:25] *** mniip left
[11:26] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 66daa4f1a6 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[11:26] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Open the door for .code

[11:26] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/66daa4f1a6

[11:27] *** gregf_ left
[11:30] *** cgfbee joined
[11:32] *** mniip_ is now known as mniip

[11:33] *** Cabanossi joined
[11:34] *** kensanata joined
[11:35] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:36] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:40] *** lembark joined
[11:40] *** pat_js joined
[11:41] *** noisegul joined
[11:41] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:42] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:51] *** jaldhar_ left
[11:52] *** jaldhar_ joined
[11:56] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 8d86f071c9 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[11:56] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention versioning

[11:56] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/8d86f071c9

[11:59] *** lembark left
[11:59] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 3c0fee64d1 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[11:59] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Compilers are free to handle optional nameds in 'unit'

[11:59] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/3c0fee64d1

[12:00] *** reportable6 left
[12:00] *** reportable6 joined
[12:03] *** lucasb joined
[12:05] *** pmurias joined
[12:07] <pmurias> lizmat: what caused the switch from being heavily opposed against the rename to being in favour of it?

[12:07] *** jaldhar_ left
[12:08] *** jaldhar_ joined
[12:12] *** Guest93 left
[12:12] <lizmat> pmurias: if you look at my "On Raku" blog post, I made clear that I would like to give the "Raku" brand a completely separate chance

[12:12] *** Guest93 joined
[12:12] <lizmat> the only thing that's changed since then in my mind, is that it is the *only* way to go

[12:19] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 7188f3974f | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[12:19] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Handwave about support for other languages as a compunit

[12:19] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/7188f3974f

[12:21] <lizmat> pmurias: and that change of mind came from weekly research for the Perl 6 weekly and the absence of Larry's voice on the matter

[12:24] <pmurias> re switching from 'use' to 'unit' doesn't that prevent mixing of multiple languages in the same file?

[12:30] <pmurias> lizmat: and it seems while a lexically scope 'use v5' could be useful for say porting something piecemeal if we are having the entire file be in python wouldn't be it better to just have it say in a .py file without unit

[12:31] <lizmat> pmurias: we've decided that you can only set the language level for a *compilation unit*

[12:31] <lizmat> so a scoped version would be out of the question, or mixing of languages inside a compilation unit

[12:32] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 1c2ece9590 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[12:32] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention effects on event naming

[12:32] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/1c2ece9590

[12:33] *** lembark joined
[12:35] *** zakharyas joined
[12:36] <Kaiepi> a friend of mine made this https://pastebin.bun/

[12:36] <Kaiepi> * https://pastebin.run/

[12:36] <Kaiepi> it supports perl 6!

[12:40] *** grondilu joined
[12:40] <lizmat> cool

[12:40] <lizmat> weekly: https://pastebin.run/

[12:40] <notable6> lizmat, Noted! (weekly)

[12:41] *** dolmen joined
[12:41] <grondilu> Anybody knows how to simply use HTTP::Server::Tiny?

[12:41] <grondilu> Like how to just serve the files in the current directory?

[12:42] <grondilu> python 3 has a very nice, simple call : python3 -m http.server

[12:42] <grondilu> I wish there were something that simple in Perl 6

[12:44] *** xfix joined
[12:44] <xfix> o/

[12:45] *** xfix24 joined
[12:46] *** xfix left
[12:46] *** MasterDuke joined
[12:46] *** xfix24 is now known as xfix

[12:54] * grondilu tries HTTP::Server::Simple

[12:55] <xfix> pastebin.run is still work in progress, there is still a lot to be done still, but it can execute Perl 6 (even if it cannot syntax highlight it, because there is no support for Perl 6 highlighting in CodeMirror)

[12:55] <xfix> and it's not written in Perl 6 (disappointing, i know)

[12:56] * grondilu gets "(Simple) at localhost:8080

[12:56] <grondilu> 12:55 GET /index.html HTTP/1.1

[12:56] <grondilu> "

[12:56] * grondilu is confused AF

[12:57] * grondilu gives up

[12:58] <xfix> p6: say Q[@A`DO world!]~|<HeLhg>

[12:59] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: «Hello world!␤»

[13:03] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: e4461ed9f2 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[13:03] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Simplify versioning

[13:03] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/e4461ed9f2

[13:03] <xfix> HTTP::Server::Tiny seems very minimalistic to me, it doesn't seem to provide static file support or anything like that, you need to implement it yourself i think

[13:05] <sena_kun> grondilu, maybe Cro::HTTP? See https://cro.services/ "Set up your routes" code chunk, then you need https://cro.services/docs/reference/cro-http-router#Serving_static_content added in routes and you are done

[13:05] <sena_kun> this is not a single command, of course

[13:05] <tobs> greppable6: \.code

[13:06] <greppable6> tobs, 559 lines, 108 modules: https://gist.github.com/23fad65a80670c16eb6bb8b9f938241d

[13:06] <jnthn> I did speculate at some point a `cro just ...` pluggable thing, where we could handle various simple tasks, so we could say things like `cro just serve /path/to/static/content`

[13:06] <tadzik> that sounds nice :)

[13:12] <scimon> I finally got Trait::Env working for Attributes with precompliation. (But utterly changing how it works). 

[13:13] <pamplemousse> The podcast Command Line Heroes did an episode on the history of Perl/Perl 6 last Tuesday that quoted lizmat++ https://www.redhat.com/en/command-line-heroes/season-3/diving-for-perl

[13:15] *** lembark left
[13:17] <scimon> And I realised I had a line in the docs that was no longer valid. 

[13:22] <AlexDaniel> kent\n: it's an interesting feature, but I can't say it's a useful one

[13:23] <AlexDaniel> kent\n: I can't say there's any comment that is spam, abuse, off-topic, outdated or resolved

[13:29] <tobs> greppable6: \.raku

[13:29] <greppable6> tobs, 75 lines, 40 modules: https://gist.github.com/19d14b6863b422daa96c797e473f640f

[13:30] <AlexDaniel> greppable6: \.raku[^d]

[13:30] <greppable6> AlexDaniel, Found nothing!

[13:30] <AlexDaniel> greppable6: raku[^d]

[13:30] <greppable6> AlexDaniel, 1 line, 1 module: https://gist.github.com/2c7b5202d7dded37a03f7f71db1ced7f

[13:31] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Trait::Env (1.0.1) by 03SCIMON

[13:31] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Trait::Env (1.0.0) by 03SCIMON

[13:32] <tobs> AlexDaniel: "Those who can't use their head must use their back" :)

[13:32] <tobs> or their eyes

[13:33] *** Sgeo_ joined
[13:36] *** Sgeo__ left
[13:48] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[13:49] <Doc_Holliwood> Guys, how do I ad hoc add a method to an existing class again? I've seen people do it here, but can't remember details

[13:50] <sena_kun> m: class A {}; A.^add_method('foo', method { 1234 }); A.new.foo;

[13:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: ( no output )

[13:50] <sena_kun> m: class A {}; A.^add_method('foo', method { 1234 }); A.new.foo.say;

[13:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: «1234␤»

[13:50] <sena_kun> Doc_Holliwood, ^

[14:00] *** curan left
[14:06] *** Poohman left
[14:10] *** Ven`` joined
[14:18] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving: AlexDaniel assigned to jnthn Issue Language versioning. https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/issues/88

[14:19] <jdv79> iirc mst and/or someone else had to do a bunch of cpan downstream mgmt - if we change PAUSE/CPAN that's a concern

[14:19] *** pmurias left
[14:20] <jdv79> i could do the PAUSE/CPAN specific bits if desired

[14:20] *** khisanth_ left
[14:25] *** kensanata left
[14:31] <Doc_Holliwood> Ty, sena_kun

[14:31] *** pmurias joined
[14:31] <Doc_Holliwood> It worked, however I just learned there already is a builtin I can use

[14:31] <sena_kun> \o/

[14:32] <Doc_Holliwood> m: "AABBBCCCCCAA".comb( /(.)$0+/ ).join("+").say;

[14:32] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: «AA+BBB+CCCCC+AA␤»

[14:41] *** xfix left
[14:41] *** robertle left
[14:47] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Gnome::Glib (0.14.3) by 03MARTIMM

[14:50] *** kensanata joined
[14:50] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: d84f4c41b3 | Coke++ | doc/Language/classtut.pod6

[14:50] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: Fix typo

[14:50] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/d84f4c41b3

[14:50] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: 1393ee936c | Coke++ | doc/Language/pod.pod6

[14:50] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: update more refs to Perl

[14:50] <Geth> ¦ doc/raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/1393ee936c

[14:51] *** ChoHag joined
[14:57] *** MilkmanDan left
[14:57] <lucasb> I'm very surprised this renaming will happen. :-| But hey... I welcome the new name :-)

[14:57] *** MilkmanDan joined
[14:58] <lucasb> I think I would prefer to let Perl 6 rest as a frozen historical attempt, just like the synopses documents are kinda frozen. And use this opportunity to refactor P6 into the new language Raku. But this is out of question I know. :D

[14:59] <jdv79> what would you refactor - out of sheer curiosity

[14:59] *** pmurias left
[15:01] <lucasb> just little details, mostly cosmetic that I have already said here. I think everyone has their little "edges" that they would like changed

[15:03] <lucasb> I think this means give "the core designers" a little slack to break backward compatibility. But that may seen as an absurd idea at this time :)

[15:04] <Doc_Holliwood> I'm in favor of the change, but methinks it should happen when rakudo is 100% production ready. That would combine the little publicity value of the two events.

[15:10] <jdv79> i thought what's what the whole lang ver and/or slangs are for?

[15:11] *** wildtrees joined
[15:11] <jdv79> as long as they are not any deep kinda changes at least

[15:16] *** uzl joined
[15:18] <uzl> o/

[15:18] <uzl> Is there a P6 equivalent for Python's import..as.. thingy?

[15:29] <Xliff> uzl: Do you want to change the package or class name?

[15:31] <jdv79> i thought there was a terse way but i can't find it

[15:32] <uzl> Xliff: I'm declaring several our-declared sub in a package and I'd like to use them with shorter names. Not their FQN.

[15:33] <uzl> pamplemousse: Listening to the podcast. Great find!

[15:33] <uzl> weekly: https://www.redhat.com/en/command-line-heroes/season-3/diving-for-perl

[15:33] <notable6> uzl, Noted! (weekly)

[15:35] <Xliff> uzl: :/ -- OK, I don't think this is what you were looking for, but you can have a module that exports aliases for all of those subs and use that?

[15:36] <Xliff> constant shortname is export := really::long::named::sub

[15:36] <timotimo> build a slang that makes that a shorter command

[15:36] <Xliff> If necessary, you can put them under different export tags.

[15:36] <Xliff> timotimo: What is it with you and Slangs?!

[15:37] <uzl> Should I do inside the module I'm exporting from? Or where I'm using the subs?

[15:37] <timotimo> just because i don't slag slangs doesn't mean i'm a slanger

[15:37] <uzl> Xliff: I guess the module I'm importing from given the 'is export'?!

[15:37] <Xliff> You a slangr, yo! Y'jest donnoit!

[15:38] <Xliff> uzl: I would say you COULD create a separate module if you wanted.

[15:38] <Xliff> That way all of those use statements can be abstracted away, if those packages just contained subs.

[15:38] <Xliff> uzl: Have some code I can see?

[15:41] *** noisegul left
[15:41] <MasterDuke> i thought there was some NYI syntax for `use`ing as a different name, but that the only way to do it right now is something like `use Long::Name; constant LN := Long::Name;`

[15:42] *** kylese left
[15:42] <Xliff> MasterDuke: That's basically what I am trying to say, except going as far as aliasing our-scoped subs in various packages.

[15:42] *** silug left
[15:43] *** Ven`` left
[15:50] *** nepugia joined
[15:51] *** Sgeo__ joined
[15:52] *** Actualeyes joined
[15:53] *** telex left
[15:53] *** silug joined
[15:54] *** Sgeo_ left
[15:54] *** telex joined
[15:55] *** ChoHag left
[15:56] *** lembark joined
[15:58] *** abraxxa left
[15:58] <uzl> Xliff: The module is long-ish so the following is a code snippet representing the module: https://pastebin.run/6X9J3gJPb7

[15:58] <uzl> Instead of calling Geuse::Utils::probably-long-name, I'd like to call probably-long-name (or even Utils::probably-long-name). I know could just declare them lexically and then use export. However, I wanted to know if this was something possible in P6.

[16:03] *** dolmen left
[16:05] <Xliff> uzl: I don't think there's a shortcut. Even python's import as only allows you to rename a namespace.

[16:06] <Xliff> uzl: In the module where you 'use Geuse::Utils', you could do as MasterDuke++ suggested and use a constant to make that shorter.

[16:06] <Xliff> constant U := Geuse::Utils

[16:06] <Xliff> Means youc an then call U::probably-long-name.

[16:07] <Xliff> I would still suggest something like an alias module that takes it one bit further.

[16:07] <Xliff> However, that's the best I can do, ATM.

[16:08] <uzl> I think that would be fine. Thanks!

[16:14] *** lembark left
[16:15] *** robertle joined
[16:20] *** scimon left
[16:30] *** chloekek joined
[16:32] *** jaldhar_ left
[16:34] *** zakharyas left
[16:37] *** mst left
[16:37] *** mst joined
[16:39] *** Sgeo_ joined
[16:42] *** Sgeo__ left
[16:43] *** grondilu left
[16:44] *** mst left
[16:44] *** mst joined
[16:50] *** khisanth_ joined
[16:51] *** Guest93 left
[16:51] <lucasb> well, that #81 thread is huge. I'm trying to read the replies carefully and have distributed thumbs-up to those I think share my view: tadzik, pamplemousse, ggoebel and possibly others :)

[16:51] *** Guest93 joined
[16:56] *** ravenous_ joined
[16:58] *** kensanata left
[17:01] *** gdonald joined
[17:05] <vrurg> Xliff: pamplemousse is perhaps close to solve the 3075 problem.

[17:08] *** jmerelo joined
[17:09] <Xliff> vrurg: Oh! Thanks for letting me know. Is there something I can follow?

[17:11] * jmerelo briefly says hey

[17:14] <vrurg> Xliff: nothing at all. I just mentioned the problem on perl6-dev and pamplemousse got interested. I'm just passing his today's words to you.

[17:14] <vrurg> jmerelo: o/

[17:15] <Xliff> Oh, OK! Thanks for letting me know.

[17:15] <vrurg> The positive outcome of this: I finally pushed myself into moar debugging... ;)

[17:15] <Xliff> Haha! Maybe you can give me some tips.

[17:17] <jmerelo> vrurg: good luck with that!

[17:18] *** chloekek left
[17:18] <vrurg> Me? Tips? I barely know a few pieces of code of Moar! Nah not soon. :)

[17:19] <vrurg> Besides, I didn't do C programming for at least a decade now, more like almost 20yrs. Though it was my primary language prior to Perl.

[17:21] *** Sgeo__ joined
[17:23] *** lembark joined
[17:24] *** Sgeo_ left
[17:26] *** Sgeo_ joined
[17:26] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 985934b855 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | 2 files

[17:26] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Move file to solutions/language

[17:26] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/985934b855

[17:27] *** dataangel left
[17:29] *** Sgeo__ left
[17:38] *** Itaipu left
[17:41] *** Itaipu joined
[17:43] *** jmerelo left
[17:52] *** Sgeo_ left
[17:52] *** Sgeo_ joined
[17:52] *** [Sno] joined
[17:58] *** sjm_uk joined
[18:00] *** reportable6 left
[18:00] *** TimToady left
[18:00] *** reportable6 joined
[18:00] *** TimToady joined
[18:08] *** BlackChaosNL[m] joined
[18:20] *** Guest93 left
[18:21] *** Cabanossi left
[18:22] *** Sgeo_ left
[18:22] *** molaf joined
[18:22] *** Sgeo_ joined
[18:28] *** sauvin left
[18:28] *** hythm joined
[18:32] *** Cabanossi joined
[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: a956d12f37 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | 6 files

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: Implement user list and automatic .tell

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: 

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: Previously evalable6 and unicodable6 had to run NAMES command in order

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: to see if there's a specific user on the channel. Now bots

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: automatically keep track of join/part/quit/nick events, relying on

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: NAMES only to get the initial list. They will also use NAMES to

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: refresh the list from time to time, which is somehow needed in my IRC

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: client during netsplits and such.

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: 

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: Also, thanks to this tellable6 now implements automatic .tell when

[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: you try to speak to a real user who is no longer on the channel.

[18:32] *** hythm left
[18:32] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: review: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/a956d12f37

[18:35] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: e35a5ac301 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[18:35] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Add mention about NQP (Not Quite Peanuts)

[18:35] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/e35a5ac301

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: ae4a0a4a75 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | xbin/Evalable.p6

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: Make evalable6 less tolerant of misspellings

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: 

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: Otherwise it clashes with tellable6.

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: review: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/ae4a0a4a75

[18:39] *** lembark left
[18:39] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: 16eb2f7137 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | xt/unicodable.t

[18:39] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: Fix broken link in tests

[18:39] <Geth> ¦ whateverable: review: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/16eb2f7137

[18:40] <tobs> AlexDaniel: "automatic .tell" ← cool

[18:40] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[18:41] <AlexDaniel> yeah, the bot is much better now

[18:41] <AlexDaniel> it normalizes nicknames more aggressively, so do expect to receive some lost messages when it joins :)

[18:42] <AlexDaniel> and less messages will be lost from now on because it doesn't allow to send to nicknames that it never saw, and it'll even give you a “did you mean” message when that happens

[18:45] *** aeruder left
[18:47] <vrurg> AlexDaniel++

[18:51] <AlexDaniel> woolfy: speaking of the plush camelia, I really forgot to get one :S maybe next time

[18:51] <AlexDaniel> woolfy: I don't know how you made it happen but it is fantastic, extremely cute

[18:51] <AlexDaniel> a bit smaller in real life, I was expecting it to be a tad bigger :)

[18:52] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: I thought you had one already  :-(

[18:52] <lizmat> now you *must* come to the SPW to collect one  :-)

[18:53] <AlexDaniel> hah

[18:54] <tobs> I've heard the real Camelia has a 3 meter wing-span, enough for a large sofa :-)

[18:55] <MasterDuke> i'm probably not going to make it to the SPW either, but i have registered for the LPW. anyone else going to be there?

[18:55] <AlexDaniel> MasterDuke: I'm seriously considering it

[18:56] * lizmat hopes it won't be called "London Perl Workshop", so she'll be able to make it there as well

[18:57] * MasterDuke is fine with giving a long grace period of assuming something named "Perl" includes all sister langs

[18:57] <MasterDuke> AlexDaniel: cool

[18:58] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: well, you first make the rename actually happen, then we'll talk :P

[19:04] *** [Sno] left
[19:08] *** _jrjsmrtn joined
[19:08] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 48793deddb | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[19:08] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Add Not Quite Pottery as a backronym for NQP

[19:08] <Geth> ¦ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/48793deddb

[19:08] *** __jrjsmrtn__ left
[19:08] <tadzik> :D

[19:12] <Geth> ¦ doc: ajs++ created pull request #2952: Docs for \c, \C, \x and \X

[19:12] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2952

[19:14] *** Sgeo__ joined
[19:16] *** pmurias joined
[19:17] *** Sgeo_ left
[19:18] <woolfy> AlexDaniel: we must correct that at some point...  like lizmat, I thought too that you already had one.  Come over to the Swiss Perl Workshop in Olten this weekend ( http://act.perl-workshop.ch/spw2019/schedule?day=2019-08-16 ) to enjoy a lot of Perl 6 goodness and get a Camelia from me too.

[19:19] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: and if you can't make that, we'll figure out another way

[19:19] <Geth> ¦ doc: sfischer13++ created pull request #2953: Typos

[19:19] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2953

[19:24] *** Sgeo_ joined
[19:24] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:25] *** nepugia left
[19:25] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:25] *** cpan-p6 left
[19:25] *** cpan-p6 joined
[19:25] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: pretty sure it'll have to be another way

[19:28] *** Sgeo__ left
[19:33] *** epony left
[19:39] *** pilne joined
[19:40] *** Maylay joined
[19:44] *** netrino joined
[19:48] * Doc_Holliwood is working on URL::Normalize

[19:48] <Doc_Holliwood> Man, this spec talk is the next worst thing to legalese

[20:02] <MasterDuke> somebody on HN is talking about programming languages using rationals, maybe someone with a HN account could chime in https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20697208

[20:03] *** sjm_uk left
[20:03] *** uzl left
[20:04] *** [Sno] joined
[20:09] *** lichtkind joined
[20:10] <[Sno]> /wave lichtkind 

[20:10] <lichtkind> cheers [Sno] 

[20:11] <lichtkind> [Sno] : did I see you in Riga?

[20:11] <[Sno]> I strongly hope you did

[20:12] <lichtkind> I just cant corelate you nick to a face

[20:14] <timotimo> did sno wear a signature black hat?

[20:14] * [Sno] didn't

[20:14] <lizmat> yes he did, occasionally  :-)

[20:14] <lizmat> ah?

[20:15] <lizmat> hmmm....

[20:15] <[Sno]> but not in Riga ;)

[20:15] <lizmat> ok

[20:15] <[Sno]> and neither timotimo nor lichtkind saw me with that ;)

[20:15] <timotimo> with without the hat?

[20:15] <[Sno]> they might know my Rübezahl hat on GitHub

[20:17] <[Sno]> I definitively have to answer lichtkind wrt. his 4 gangsters wrong assumptions :D

[20:17] <timotimo> i must have missed that :)

[20:17] <[Sno]> timotimo: I think you've never seen me wearing my black hat

[20:18] <[Sno]> wait ... maybe in Gummersbach

[20:18] <timotimo> i definitely was in gummersbach

[20:19] <[Sno]> I know - and I know we'd spoken there

[20:19] <lichtkind> me too

[20:19] <[Sno]> but I don't know whether I weared my hat while you'd seen me ;)

[20:19] <lichtkind> i mean gummersbach

[20:19] *** ravenous_ left
[20:20] <timotimo> yeah we spoke in gummersbach as well i believe

[20:20] <timotimo> i am certain, actually

[20:24] <lichtkind> yes I think so

[20:28] <[Sno]> lizmat: I think, ash got it now :D

[20:28] <[Sno]> dunno what he wants to say

[20:28] *** zakharyas joined
[20:29] <[Sno]> lichtkind: du hast post in deiner mailbox :P

[20:50] *** pmurias left
[20:52] <AlexDaniel> [Sno]: definitely not something good or nice :)

[20:52] *** pmurias joined
[20:57] <AlexDaniel> [Sno]: but if we're only left with “wait but you can't do that” kind of arguments, then things are going pretty good :)

[20:58] <[Sno]> AlexDaniel: wtf do you talk about?

[20:58] <lucasb> haha :)

[20:58] <AlexDaniel> hehehe

[20:59] <AlexDaniel> [Sno]: I was replying to “I think, ash got it now”, but maybe I misunderstood

[20:59] <AlexDaniel> and the next message :)

[20:59] <lucasb> I'm sorry but I really sad about this

[21:00] <lucasb> I don't want to pollute that thread even more

[21:01] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: what's sad exactly?

[21:01] <lucasb> regarding "[Larry's] on own wish": I think his wish as a good parent is to set his daughter free, not to *rename* it

[21:02] <lucasb> 20 years! If wanted to have renamed it it would have already been done.

[21:02] <lucasb> *If he wanted to rename...

[21:02] <AlexDaniel> lucasb: he doesn't, but letting your kids grow up is also kinda hard

[21:03] <lizmat> lucasb: but that's the point, I think: Larry doesn't want it renamed, but is also parent enough that he realises his brainchild has a mind of its own and is now intending to be known under a different name

[21:04] <lizmat> but still be the same child / sibling

[21:04] <lizmat> FWIW, I've actually seen that happen IRL with some friends of mine when they went to university  :-)

[21:24] *** sena_kun left
[21:25] *** zakharyas left
[21:48] *** captain-adequate joined
[21:48] *** captain-adequate left
[21:58] <AlexDaniel> omg what do I do with all the tells to GuestXXXXX

[21:59] <AlexDaniel> ah wait, do I even have any… hold on… :)

[22:00] <AlexDaniel> no! OK, I was looking at seens

[22:01] <kawaii> I missed the chat earlier but I'll certainly make it to LPW given that it's in my own country. :)

[22:03] *** Kaiepi left
[22:03] *** Kaiepi joined
[22:05] *** Kaiepi left
[22:05] *** Kaiepi joined
[22:16] *** huf left
[22:31] *** huf joined
[22:35] *** pamplemousse_ joined
[22:39] *** pamplemousse left
[22:43] *** dogbert17 left
[22:52] *** Actualeyes left
[22:55] *** MasterDuke left
[22:58] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[22:58] *** Actualeyes joined
[22:59] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:09] *** pmurias left
[23:20] *** epony joined
[23:21] *** Cabanossi left
[23:24] *** Cabanossi joined
[23:28] *** ladorabl joined
[23:38] *** Sgeo_ left
[23:39] *** ladorabl left
[23:40] *** netrino left
[23:44] *** rindolf left
[23:45] *** Sgeo joined
