[00:00] *** reportable6 left
[00:00] <irced> incidentally, i am copying the supply by value at some point i.e. not using any bind operator

[00:04] *** reportable6 joined
[00:04] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[00:04] <irced> nope, it's not the bind operator issue. seems to be an issue with passing by value into different functions. maybe i can pass by reference?

[00:25] <irced> maybe there's a way to "start" a supply before i pass it along

[00:26] <irced> err supplier

[00:28] *** Actualeyes left
[00:30] <irced> maybe i just need to rethink domains and signals here üòÉ

[00:40] <guifa> jnthn++ 

[00:44] *** zakharyas joined
[00:44] *** god joined
[00:55] *** adu joined
[00:59] *** nepugia left
[01:15] *** adu left
[01:21] *** lucasb left
[01:23] *** AlexDani` joined
[01:27] *** AlexDaniel left
[01:28] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[01:28] *** AlexDaniel left
[01:28] *** AlexDaniel joined
[01:33] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:33] *** aborazmeh left
[01:33] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:38] *** molaf left
[01:47] *** god left
[01:47] <irced> god no!

[01:51] *** molaf joined
[02:04] *** Manifest0 left
[02:04] *** Manifest0 joined
[02:24] *** aborazmeh left
[02:35] *** khisanth_ left
[02:36] *** Cabanossi left
[02:46] *** Cabanossi joined
[02:49] *** khisanth_ joined
[02:56] *** mowcat joined
[02:57] *** mowcat left
[02:57] *** mowcat joined
[03:06] *** [particle] joined
[03:07] *** [particle]1 left
[03:23] *** pamplemousse joined
[03:50] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:50] *** aborazmeh left
[03:50] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:58] *** [Sno] left
[04:00] *** pamplemousse left
[04:12] *** aborazmeh left
[04:21] *** Sgeo_ joined
[04:22] *** irced left
[04:23] *** Sgeo left
[04:25] *** mowcat left
[04:25] *** giraffe left
[04:26] *** giraffe joined
[04:32] *** vike left
[04:39] *** curan joined
[04:48] *** aborazmeh joined
[04:48] *** aborazmeh left
[04:48] *** aborazmeh joined
[04:49] *** squashable6 left
[04:52] *** squashable6 joined
[04:52] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[04:53] *** god joined
[04:58] *** god left
[05:08] *** aborazmeh left
[05:12] *** sauvin joined
[05:13] *** sauvin left
[05:35] *** [particle]1 joined
[05:37] *** [particle] left
[05:38] *** [particle] joined
[05:40] *** [particle]1 left
[05:51] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:52] *** cpan-p6 joined
[05:52] *** cpan-p6 left
[05:52] *** cpan-p6 joined
[06:00] *** reportable6 left
[06:01] *** reportable6 joined
[06:16] *** samebchase joined
[06:24] *** ravenousmoose joined
[06:25] *** [particle] left
[06:25] *** [particle]1 joined
[06:29] *** [particle] joined
[06:30] *** [particle]1 left
[06:33] *** sena_kun joined
[06:35] *** sena_kun left
[07:00] *** rindolf joined
[07:01] *** [particle] left
[07:04] *** [particle] joined
[07:15] *** [particle] left
[07:21] *** [particle] joined
[07:38] *** dakkar joined
[07:49] *** [particle] left
[07:57] *** [particle] joined
[08:00] *** dolmen joined
[08:14] *** Manifest0 left
[08:26] *** chloekek joined
[08:26] *** scimon joined
[08:27] <scimon> So I'm finding some of the recent comments in the renaming thread confusing.

[08:28] <scimon> When exactly are you going to have production code which needs to run the most recent version of perl6 (or whatever) (because if you stick to an old version the name doesn't matter) but you can't spend the time to change the shebang line? 

[08:28] <scimon> Seems a very contrived example.

[08:29] <El_Che> my thoughts exactly

[08:29] <El_Che> it's not like it will be a big bang tomorrow

[08:33] *** satori__ left
[08:33] *** [particle] left
[08:35] *** [particle] joined
[08:35] *** reach_satori joined
[08:36] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 531b628004 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/SWOT-TO-RAKU.md

[08:36] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Add initial version of SWOT analysis

[08:36] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/531b628004

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: d7b48569e5 | threadless-screw++ | doc/Language/regexes.pod6

[08:39] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/regexes

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Expansion of Regexes:Lexical Conventions section:

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: - intro clarifying 'regular expressions' and 'regexes';

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc:     - systematic treatment of anonymous and named regex definitions;

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc:     - new subsection on common ways of matching regexes;

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/d7b48569e5

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 22095edbc4 | threadless-screw++ | doc/Language/regexes.pod6

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Minor corrections

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/22095edbc4

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: d10938e8f6 | (Juan Juli√°n Merelo Guerv√≥s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/regexes.pod6

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #2962 from perl6/regexes

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Expansion of Regexes:Lexical Conventions section

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/d10938e8f6

[08:47] *** [particle]1 joined
[08:49] <lizmat> so, what would be reasons to *not* treat the rename of Perl 6 as a fork ?

[08:49] *** [particle] left
[08:50] *** ravenousmoose left
[08:50] <SmokeMachine> fork++

[08:50] <SmokeMachine> lizmat++

[08:51] <El_Che> lizmat: because you may end with forked communities?

[08:52] <lizmat> that could be one, yes...  but I'd like to see the fork as a purely technical solution, not as something that would be needed from the community

[08:52] <El_Che> I get your motivation

[08:52] <El_Che> but it's an extra risk

[08:53] <El_Che> that wasn't there on the original proposal

[08:53] <El_Che> while the risks for "backward compatibility" are exagerated

[08:53] <lizmat> for the moment I'm just brainstorming

[08:53] <El_Che> like scimon states

[08:53] <lizmat> the advantage would be that current users would need to opt-in for the name change

[08:53] <lizmat> rather than it being forced upon them

[08:54] <El_Che> of course there are risks with a renaming, but backwards compatibility isn't one of them is handled right

[08:54] <El_Che> add a perl6 link for a year

[08:54] <El_Che> solved

[08:54] <scimon> fork-- 

[08:54] <scimon> Epp

[08:54] <lizmat> I guess we will need more than a year

[08:54] <El_Che> if you run old code with an old compiler no problem there

[08:55] <lizmat> scimon: Epp ?

[08:55] <El_Che> if you maintain your project you have a big windows to make the 1 line change

[08:55] <scimon> I think we're in a much better place to do a rename than a fork. Really we're at the start of the journey. Forking things now would just end up with 3 groups all of whom don't like each other.

[08:55] <scimon> (That should have been Eeep a small squeak of fear.)

[08:56] *** squashable6 left
[08:56] <scimon> Perl5 people angry at the remaining Perl6 people. Perl6 people angry at the Raku (or whatever people)... and Raku people sad because of all the anger.

[08:56] <El_Che> if you get 2 repos/project that are updated individually we don't solve the problem we wanted to fix

[08:57] <El_Che> Perl 6 is still squatting the Perl name (and Perl 5 people still pissed at us)

[08:57] *** veesh1 joined
[08:57] <SmokeMachine> As I understood, the fork would not fork the community, just the language... and the oldone would be "abandoned"...

[08:57] <scimon> Sure there is some Perl6 in production but any there is must surely be able to be updated before it's an issue.

[08:57] <El_Che> and Perl 6 still lives in a marketing nightmare

[08:57] <lizmat> El_Che: good point wrt squatting

[08:57] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: "would"

[08:57] <scimon> But if there's a fork some people would pick up the "abandoned" one 

[08:58] *** squashable6 joined
[08:58] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v squashable6

[08:58] <El_Che> lizmat: I see your proposal not only as the only way forward for Perl 6 but also as a healing gesture for the wider Perl community, explicitly acknowledging what Perl 5 people want/need.

[08:59] <El_Che> and the forking weakens your proposal on the core idea

[08:59] <scimon> Yup

[08:59] <scimon> Yup again

[08:59] <SmokeMachine> scimon: yes... you are probably right...

[08:59] <scimon> Yay it's a blue moon ;)

[09:00] <SmokeMachine> El_Che: makes sense...

[09:00] <SmokeMachine> fork-- :(

[09:00] <aearnus[m]> on top of everything else: if there's some band of people that don't like it, the language will still be open source when everything is said and done. That band can fork the language and call it whatever they want

[09:00] <lizmat> ok, enough about the fork idea, it's bad, stricken from the replies

[09:01] <lizmat> sorry for the noise

[09:01] <El_Che> aearnus[m]: exactly, but only after the name-version situation is resolved.

[09:01] <El_Che> lizmat: no sorries needed, glad to be a sounding board

[09:02] <El_Che> scimon: we can't disagree later about the semicolons like we do on twitter :)

[09:02] <scimon> :D

[09:03] *** Black_Ribbon left
[09:03] <scimon> Right meetings

[09:03] <aearnus[m]> El_Che: I could fork Perl 6 today and call it Perl 7. Or Perl 5, or (etc etc etc). Doubt that would ever hold water though

[09:03] <aearnus[m]> And I doubt it would hold water going forward

[09:04] <SmokeMachine> aearnus[m]: you are late: https://github.com/perl7/perl7

[09:04] <SmokeMachine> :P

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 15a84518d4 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Simplify the Executables section

[09:04] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/15a84518d4

[09:05] <aearnus[m]> Nooo, haha. Looks like Perl (12..*) is still open though :)

[09:05] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: a1e9c806a1 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/PATH-TO-RAKU.md

[09:05] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention need for a META6.json file

[09:05] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/a1e9c806a1

[09:06] <lizmat> aearnus[m] it has been suggested the release of Perl 5 in 2020 would be "Perl 32"

[09:07] <aearnus[m]> Talk about un-google-able

[09:09] <El_Che> aearnus[m]: no you can't. The Perl name is owned by Larry

[09:09] <El_Che> aearnus[m]: or you can, but it can be taken down

[09:10] <aearnus[m]> Fair point. Was just saying that as an example though, my point still stands regardless of what the hypothetical fork would be named

[09:11] *** squashable6 left
[09:13] <El_Che> aearnus[m]: what's the point exactly? I missed, I think

[09:14] *** squashable6 joined
[09:14] <aearnus[m]> El_Che: just that if a group was REALLY unhappy with the name change, they could always fork the language themselves. it's not on the main community to do that

[09:14] *** sena_kun joined
[09:16] <El_Che> aearnus[m]: ah OK, yes indeed. But it's a difference if the "fork" keeps the original name. Who is the fork then?

[09:16] *** domidumont joined
[09:19] *** pat_js joined
[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: ca2534fada | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/pod.pod6

[09:23] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/pod

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Standardizes Pod name

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: To Pod6, which is exactly the same as the extension. It's bound to change eventually, so it's better if we always use the same thing.

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: I have changed Perl 6 Pod to Pod6 everywhere. Still, the official name with pod <non-breaking whitespace>6 is going to be used somewhere.

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Pod has also been changed to Pod6, to avoid confusion with Perl 5's Pod. Several versions of the name, with or without capital, were used, so this also standardizes that.

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: This closes #1923

[09:23] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/ca2534fada

[09:23] <aearnus[m]> El_Che: the msgs earlier were about whether a name change would work better as a fork of the language instead of a deprecation period and etc. I was just suggesting that the only forking that might happen is by people unhappy with the name. but it probably wouldn't happen either way

[09:25] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 25916df3dc | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/SWOT-TO-RAKU.md

[09:25] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: More SWOTs

[09:25] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/25916df3dc

[09:34] <SmokeMachine> would that be possible to create a tool that changes a module source code to fix everything needed to the rename? (extensions, .perl, Perl::, etc)

[09:35] <SmokeMachine> META6.json

[09:36] *** domidumont left
[09:36] <lizmat> we need to keep the name "META6.json" unless we want to lose compatibility with PAUSE

[09:36] <lizmat> and that would be bad

[09:37] <lizmat> but, yes, such a tool should be relatively easy to make, or even be made part of something like App::MI6

[09:37] <moritz> I think SmokeMachine meant that META6.json should be updated to reflect the changes

[09:38] <lizmat> ah, ok  :-)  *phew*

[09:38] <lizmat> things like App::MI6 already read and write the META6.json file anyway...

[09:39] *** zakharyas left
[09:39] <SmokeMachine> maybe even the tool could automatically open PRs...

[09:39] <lizmat> as far as I can see, the tool only would need to rename files found in the META6.json and then change the META6.json itself accordingly

[09:41] <SmokeMachine> lizmat: change any call to .perl to .raku, any use of the Perl namespace, perl variable, :from<Perl5> to :from<Perl>, etc...

[09:42] <lizmat> SmokeMachine: should probably be made into a separate module, so that other apps (like Comma) could make use of it as well

[09:42] <SmokeMachine> lizmat: yes...

[09:45] *** rindolf left
[09:48] *** MasterDuke left
[09:56] *** pilne left
[10:04] *** veesh1 left
[10:05] *** ravenousmoose joined
[10:23] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 59d86086fd | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/SWOT-TO-RAKU.md

[10:23] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention less confusion about name

[10:23] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/59d86086fd

[10:40] *** Guest93 left
[10:45] <tbrowder> ref raku marketing: maybe get linus torvalds on board (git and linux kernel dev big-name users of perl)

[10:48] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 2e477d6968 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/SWOT-TO-RAKU.md

[10:48] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Mention social media tagging

[10:48] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/2e477d6968

[11:00] <scimon> I started by renaming a module I'm working on from CommonMark::PP6 (Pure Perl 6) to CommonMark::Pure (it doesn't use and external library you see).  

[11:00] <scimon> Currently it's got 130 tests passing and 520 failing so.... some work still to do.

[11:04] *** dolmen left
[11:04] *** mahafyi joined
[11:05] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 2c7aeaf523 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/SWOT-TO-RAKU.md

[11:05] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Add marketing opportunity

[11:05] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/2c7aeaf523

[11:10] *** vike joined
[11:13] *** dolmen joined
[11:14] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: a264ae4e52 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ | solutions/language/SWOT-TO-RAKU.md

[11:14] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: Add some more threats

[11:14] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: 

[11:14] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: And remove "because of a name change", because that's what this SWOT

[11:14] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: analysis is all about anyway, so redundant

[11:14] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving/path-to-raku: review: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/commit/a264ae4e52

[11:14] *** mowcat joined
[11:15] *** mowcat left
[11:15] *** mowcat joined
[11:19] *** pamplemousse joined
[11:19] *** pamplemousse_ joined
[11:20] *** pamplemousse_ left
[11:20] *** takside joined
[11:22] <tbrowder> lizmat: swot threat lose of cpan?

[11:22] <tbrowder> *loss

[11:35] <El_Che> why?

[11:37] <tadzik> it's definitely a threat imo

[11:41] <moritz> because it's the Comprehensive *Perl* Archive Network

[11:41] <El_Che> wasn't the idea to stay in the Perl (culture) family?

[11:41] <moritz> the idea, yes

[11:41] *** lichtkind_ joined
[11:42] <moritz> but the problem is that if we drop "Perl" from the name, some people will interpret that as "it's not perl anymore"

[11:42] <moritz> so people from the Perl 5 community rejecting Raku in parts of the infrastructure is a credible risk

[11:42] <El_Che> those people reject Perl 6 already as not Perl, don't they?

[11:42] <moritz> heck, even with "Perl" in the name, there were regular discussions on perlmonks whether Perl 6 questions belonged to perlmonks

[11:42] <moritz> El_Che: maybe, but they'll have a new lever

[11:44] *** lichtkind left
[11:47] <El_Che> I think that renaming will take the big lever away

[11:48] <moritz> previously, the discussion was "do we really need Perl 6 questions on perlmonks? they annoy me" -- "yes, Perl 6 is Perl. It's even in the name" -- "OK, guess I can't do much about it, I'll ignore it"

[11:50] <moritz> after a rename, it will continue as "yes, Raku is still Perl, *despite* the name" -- "No way, Raku dropped 'Perl' from the name, go away from perlmonks"

[11:50] <El_Che> moritz: that's a reasonable Perl6 hater

[11:50] <El_Che> more often you have other reactions

[11:50] *** nepugia joined
[11:50] <moritz> El_Che: I've seen this exact behavior far too many times to dismiss it with "hater's gonna hate"

[11:51] <moritz> and replace perlmonks with TPF, Perl Conferences, Workshops, CPAN and so on

[11:51] <El_Che> I mean that a lot of people don't react like that. As long Perl 6 jas the version in the name they consider it the enemy

[11:53] <El_Che> I hope that the most extreme defactor will call victory and be happy

[11:54] <moritz> a lot of people don't react like that, but the few that do pose a risk

[11:57] *** curan left
[12:00] *** reportable6 left
[12:00] *** reportable6 joined
[12:07] *** noisegul joined
[12:08] <tadzik> the enemy, yes, but still a relative that they need to care about

[12:09] <tadzik> with Raku wanting to distance itself from Perl, it's not unreasonable to expect some Perl people to stop caring about it

[12:14] <moritz> or more to the point, wanting to distance themselves from Raku

[12:15] <El_Che> That happened already

[12:15] <El_Che> cfr SawyerX keynote at YAPC-NA

[12:16] <El_Che> Perl 5 is moving on, and that's great

[12:16] <El_Che> the name is not changing that

[12:17] <El_Che> If people want to stay as 1 meta-communiity it will happen, if people don't it will happen as well

[12:17] <El_Che> whatever the name

[12:20] *** dolmen left
[12:22] *** mahafyi left
[12:23] *** mahafyi joined
[12:38] *** chloekek left
[12:42] *** Guest93 joined
[12:46] *** dolmen joined
[12:49] *** curan joined
[12:59] *** rindolf joined
[13:00] *** rindolf left
[13:01] *** rindolf joined
[13:07] <tbrowder> is an apache mod_raku feasible?

[13:07] *** Juerd left
[13:08] *** Juerd joined
[13:18] *** lucasb joined
[13:22] *** tison joined
[13:25] <tison> Recently I close a series of issues ever interested in. I close them because I myself have no interest of them any more. Please open another issues and refer to the existing issue and continue the discussion. Instead just reopen an issue closed by one's personal willing.

[13:27] <lucasb> I don't think that's how things work

[13:30] <moritz> tison: an issue is an issue is an issue, regardless of who has it

[13:30] <tison> ok, i see.

[13:30] <moritz> the information that you are no longer interested is valuable, but others could have had the same issue, and not opened a new one because the saw the existing one

[13:30] *** tison left
[13:44] *** curan left
[13:51] *** harmil joined
[13:51] <harmil> Howdy all.

[13:52] <harmil> m: join ", ", "abc\x[0308]".comb>>.ord>>.fmt("0x%04X")

[13:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: ( no output )

[13:52] <harmil> m: say join ", ", "abc\x[0308]".comb>>.ord>>.fmt("0x%04X")

[13:52] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´0x0061, 0x0062, 0x0063‚ê§¬ª

[13:53] <harmil> That confuses me... shouldn't the last codepoint be an NFG-created reserved point?

[13:57] <AlexDaniel> m: say join ", ", "abc\x[0308]".comb>>.ord

[13:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´97, 98, 99‚ê§¬ª

[13:57] <AlexDaniel> m: say join ", ", "abc\x[0308]".comb>>.ords

[13:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´97, 98, 99, 776‚ê§¬ª

[13:57] <AlexDaniel> m: say join ", ", "abc\x[0308]".ords

[13:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´97, 98, 99, 776‚ê§¬ª

[13:57] <AlexDaniel> m: say join ", ", "abc\x[0308]".uninames

[13:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´LATIN SMALL LETTER A, LATIN SMALL LETTER B, LATIN SMALL LETTER C, COMBINING DIAERESIS‚ê§¬ª

[13:58] <AlexDaniel> harmil: is it more clear this way?

[13:59] *** dolmen left
[14:04] *** domidumont joined
[14:04] <harmil> It's not clear to me why comb.>>ord is not showing what's there... it's also not clear to me why I'm not seeing the NFG reserved private use codepoint. Is there a way I can ask for that?

[14:05] <harmil> Sorry if that sounded brusque. I'm doing 12 things ;-)

[14:06] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[14:09] <Grinnz> lizmat: not sure how to phrase this but would add reduced confusion in other analysis as a benefit (not just tiobe)

[14:10] <Grinnz> for example source file classification, stack overflow tags (specifically that their system considers the perl6 tag a version of the perl tag), ...

[14:11] *** pamplemousse left
[14:12] <Grinnz> basically, all analysis difficulties that stem from the name being differentiated only by a number

[14:14] *** BuildTheRobots left
[14:16] <sena_kun> m: sub a(*$a) {}

[14:16] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: ( no output )

[14:16] *** mithaldu_ left
[14:16] <sena_kun> is ^ not forbidden to compile just because or?

[14:16] *** TeamBlast left
[14:16] *** riatre left
[14:16] *** charsbar joined
[14:16] <sena_kun> m: sub a(*$a) { say $a }; a(1,2,3);

[14:16] *** riatre joined
[14:16] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Calling a(Int, Int, Int) will never work with declared signature ($a)‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3sub a(*$a) { say $a }; 7‚èè5a(1,2,3);‚ê§¬ª

[14:17] <sena_kun> the error message sees the signature as just "$a"

[14:17] *** mithaldu_ joined
[14:17] *** TeamBlast joined
[14:18] *** iviv joined
[14:18] *** kip joined
[14:19] <sena_kun> m: sub a(*$a) { say $a }; &a.signature.params[0].sigil.say;

[14:19] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´$‚ê§¬ª

[14:19] <sena_kun> m: sub a(*&a) { say $a }; &a.signature.params[0].sigil.say;

[14:19] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Variable '$a' is not declared. Did you mean '&a'?‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3sub a(*&a) { say 7‚èè5$a }; &a.signature.params[0].sigil.say;‚ê§¬ª

[14:19] <Doc_Holliwood> I'm scratching my head here guys. I am trying to output "√∂" in a Windows console. I set the codepage to 1252 and do .encode("utf-8").decode("windows-1252").say; ( see https://pastebin.com/caNYgdFG ) but the console still thinks it's unicode

[14:19] <sena_kun> m: sub a(*&a) {}; &a.signature.params[0].sigil.say;

[14:19] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´&‚ê§¬ª

[14:19] *** BuildTheRobots joined
[14:20] <Doc_Holliwood> This works as it should in Perl 5: use utf8; use Encode; print encode("iso-8859-1","√∂");

[14:21] <Doc_Holliwood> Do I have to tell Perl somehow that STDOUT is not unicode?

[14:22] <huf> doesnt decode() decode? if so, why are you decoding from windows codepage instead of encoding to it?

[14:26] <Doc_Holliwood> If I understand that right, no. that should encode from the utf-8 ( 246.char ) to "normal form" and decode that to latin-1

[14:27] <AlexDaniel> Doc_Holliwood: you might need to reopen $*OUT with a different encoding

[14:27] *** pmurias joined
[14:28] <Grinnz> that's not what encode and decode mean.

[14:28] <Grinnz> you encode *to* a character encoding and decode *from* it

[14:29] <Grinnz> and 246.char is not utf-8, it's a character

[14:30] <Grinnz> I assume the details here are utf-8 oriented, so you need to change stdout to do cp1252 instead like AlexDaniel said

[14:30] <Grinnz> er, defaults

[14:30] <Doc_Holliwood> it's not a character. it's a Str

[14:30] <Grinnz> I am speaking in the Unicode sense

[14:30] <Doc_Holliwood> m: 246.char.WHAT.say

[14:30] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´No such method 'char' for invocant of type 'Int'. Did you mean any of these?‚ê§    can‚ê§    chars‚ê§    chop‚ê§    chr‚ê§‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[14:31] <Doc_Holliwood> m: 246.chr.WHAT.say

[14:31] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´(Str)‚ê§¬ª

[14:31] <Grinnz> it is not encoded to utf-8.

[14:31] <Grinnz> it is not encoded to anything

[14:31] <Grinnz> the output would encode it to utf-8 by default (again, assuming I understand correctly)

[14:32] <AlexDaniel> m: $*OUT = $*OUT.open: enc => ‚Äòwindows-1252‚Äô; say ‚Äò≈ì‚Äô

[14:32] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´\x9C‚ê§¬ª

[14:32] <AlexDaniel> e: $*OUT = $*OUT.open: enc => ‚Äòwindows-1252‚Äô; say ‚Äò≈ì‚Äô

[14:32] <evalable6> AlexDaniel, rakudo-moar cd8463a85: OUTPUT: ¬´ÙèøΩx9C‚ê§¬ª

[14:33] <AlexDaniel> that seems to work?

[14:33] <Grinnz> you need to have the output encode to cp1252 because that's what your terminal expects. most terminals in unix land expect utf-8

[14:34] <Grinnz> as well as irc

[14:34] <Doc_Holliwood> I see

[14:34] <Doc_Holliwood> $*OUT.encoding("latin-1"); did the trick, I don't need to encode or decode anything, I can just .say

[14:35] <Grinnz> note that latin1 is missing a bunch of characters from cp1252. so make sure to use the latter if you want those

[14:38] *** hoelzro joined
[14:38] *** dolmen joined
[14:42] * Doc_Holliwood reads the fucking manual

[14:42] *** dolmen left
[14:42] <Doc_Holliwood> or, I might simply set the codepage to utf-8 ( 65001 )

[14:43] <Grinnz> probably a good idea

[14:44] <Doc_Holliwood> I have my moments ;-)

[14:46] *** mowcat left
[15:02] *** pmurias left
[15:05] *** epony left
[15:14] *** Doc_Holliwood left
[15:23] *** Doc_Holliwood joined
[15:25] *** yht joined
[15:27] <Doc_Holliwood> Is there a way to alias native types? so I can for example write "sub foo(BOOL, DWORD) is native yada yada" instead of "sub foo(uint32, int32)"?

[15:27] <Doc_Holliwood> I tried inheriting from them but apparently that isn't supported

[15:29] <AlexDaniel> m: constant \x := uint32; sub foo(x, int32) {}; dd &foo

[15:29] <camelia> rakudo-moar ecf2b1e4f: OUTPUT: ¬´Sub foo = sub foo (uint32 $, int32 $) { #`(Sub|59767352) ... }‚ê§¬ª

[15:32] <Doc_Holliwood> very nice

[15:32] <Doc_Holliwood> ty

[15:36] <Doc_Holliwood> this is a syntax error, sadly. constant \LPDWORD := uint32 is rw; But I guess I can live with DWORD is rw in the signature instead :-D

[15:40] *** MasterDuke joined
[15:46] <lizmat> weekly: https://yakshavingcream.blogspot.com/2019/08/summer-in-review.html

[15:46] <notable6> lizmat, Noted! (weekly)

[15:49] *** dolmen joined
[15:51] *** adu joined
[15:56] *** ChoHag left
[15:58] *** ChoHag joined
[16:04] *** pat_js left
[16:06] *** john_parr left
[16:06] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Michael-S++ created pull request #2964: Added comment syntax on 101 page.

[16:06] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2964

[16:07] *** john_parr joined
[16:12] *** rindolf left
[16:13] *** domidumont left
[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: f564a7f6e1 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | 2 files

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: See messages that are sent to other users

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: 

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: Using $.NEXT is not enough to make IRC::Client redispatch to another

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: method. The plugin system seems a bit fragile, but maybe it's because

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: I'm not using it properly. Anyway, this should now catch more

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: messages, perhaps with a few (mostly irrelevant) exceptions.

[16:19] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: review: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/f564a7f6e1

[16:19] *** tellable6 left
[16:19] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: ‚Üë fixed!

[16:20] *** tellable6 joined
[16:24] *** sarna joined
[16:25] <sarna> hi, I'm trying to sneak perl6 into my workplace and I need to install it on a docker container quickly - what would be the best way to do this?

[16:25] <sarna> I can't build rakudo-star, it'd be too slow

[16:25] <timotimo> i'd recommend going with nxadm's packages

[16:25] <timotimo> or using a perl6 docker image as the base perhaps

[16:26] <sarna> yeah I've been thinking about just pulling an image and then discarding it (I need to do some string processing before prod build)

[16:27] <sarna> timotimo: could you please link me to nxadm's packages? can't find them in ddg

[16:27] <sarna> oh, found them! nevermind :D

[16:28] *** scimon left
[16:30] <sarna> alpine builds are available, perfect. thanks!

[16:32] *** dakkar left
[16:37] *** AlexDaniel is now known as jntn

[16:37] *** jntn is now known as jnth

[16:37] *** jnth is now known as AlexDaniel

[16:42] <sarna> interesting

[16:48] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: 51c0e06894 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | 2 files

[16:48] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: Fix Reportable and Nativecallable

[16:48] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: 

[16:48] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: It's a PATH issue. The code was very fragile and should be a little

[16:48] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: bit better now.

[16:48] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: review: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/51c0e06894

[16:50] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: 9d16c7cd37 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | xbin/Reportable.p6

[16:50] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: Use the right variable name (oops)

[16:50] <Geth> ¬¶ whateverable: review: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/commit/9d16c7cd37

[16:50] *** reportable6 left
[16:50] *** nativecallable6 left
[16:51] *** reportable6 joined
[16:51] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v reportable6

[16:51] <El_Che> sarna: add this in your image: https://github.com/nxadm/rakudo-pkg#os-repositories

[16:52] <El_Che> if you need alpine, there are apks here: https://github.com/nxadm/rakudo-pkg#direct-downloads

[16:52] <sarna> El_Che: yeah, thanks :) I'll have to go for direct downloads, since we use alpine for this build

[16:52] <sarna> yeah

[16:52] <El_Che> however, if you need to compile C modules, you'll probably want something else than alpine, eg debian-slim

[16:53] <sarna> now I'm doing the substitution thing with awk and it's.. not pretty

[16:53] <El_Che> ah ok, I haven't found an easy way to create alpine repos yet

[16:53] <El_Che> if you do, feel free to open an issue or send a PR :)

[16:53] <sarna> well, I can probably switch to debian/ubuntu if alpine proves problematic in this regard

[16:53] <sarna> will do :)

[16:54] * sarna is their own devops team

[16:54] *** wildtrees joined
[16:54] <El_Che> maybe the new github CI infra will support apk by an api. I am using bintray because rpm and deb repos are easy there

[16:55] <El_Che> (and the bandwidth)

[16:55] *** nativecallable6 joined
[16:55] *** wildtrees left
[16:55] *** wildtrees joined
[16:56] <sarna> bintray seems nice

[16:57] <sarna> don't know about github, I've mostly moved from there - I'm not really comfortable giving my stuff to Microsoft :)

[16:59] *** go|dfish left
[17:01] *** go|dfish joined
[17:01] *** epony joined
[17:04] *** reach_satori left
[17:07] *** aborazmeh joined
[17:07] *** aborazmeh left
[17:07] *** aborazmeh joined
[17:14] *** sena_kun left
[17:22] *** sarna left
[17:29] *** Cabanossi left
[17:32] *** pamplemousse joined
[17:38] *** Cabanossi joined
[17:54] <lizmat> weekly: https://perlweeklychallenge.org/blog/meet-the-champion-021/

[17:54] <notable6> lizmat, Noted! (weekly)

[17:55] *** aborazmeh left
[18:01] *** sjm_uk joined
[18:01] *** aborazmeh joined
[18:01] *** aborazmeh left
[18:01] *** aborazmeh joined
[18:02] <woolfy1> I wanted to write a reaction to the renaming plans of lizmat, because I disagree with any such plans quite a lot.

[18:02] <woolfy1> I wrote this...

[18:02] <woolfy1> weekly: https://wendyga.wordpress.com/2019/08/21/talks-in-the-perl-6-community-might-lead-to-change-the-name-of-perl-6/

[18:02] <notable6> woolfy1, Noted! (weekly)

[18:07] <[Coke]> woolfy1++

[18:10] <[Coke]> ... this is lo!

[18:10] <[Coke]> nger than I thought!

[18:12] <woolfy1> It is indeed quite long.  It is even less coherent than I wanted.  I am not capable of coherent when it comes to the name of Perl 6.

[18:12] <woolfy1> But since I don't have a vote in this issue, I can merely blog.  Still, I am trying to help lizmat...

[18:14] <lizmat> Once upon a time in Hollywood&

[18:17] <Grinnz> woolfy1: It makes me sad to read the ending. And I'm sorry the discussions cause you such grief. But no matter how much you want Perl 6 to be the successor of Perl 5, it is directly in conflict with what a *lot* of people want, and with what the languages are now in design and intent. And as long as the names are misrepresenting that relationship, people will continue to hate the other community, and it's destructive and antithetical

[18:17] <Grinnz> to the relationship we could and should have. If Perl 6 is to replace Perl 5, it will only do so by attrition, decades in the future.

[18:17] *** ravenous_ joined
[18:21] <AlexDaniel> woolfy1: what's your handle on github?

[18:22] <El_Che> I my --probably irrelevant-- opinion, if the naming situation persists Perl 5 and 6 will loose all relevance in a few years. A now of never moment in time. (Perl will have maintenance codebase, but that will only get you so far. It also need new *modern* stuff in new major releases)

[18:22] <AlexDaniel> found it

[18:23] <El_Che> Renaming does not fix that, but it opens an opportunity, small as it may be

[18:23] <AlexDaniel> woolfy1: invitation sent, you can accept it here: https://github.com/perl6/problem-solving/invitations

[18:24] <AlexDaniel> woolfy1: after that you'll be able to leave comments on Raku issue/PR

[18:24] <AlexDaniel> if anybody else has something valuable to say but can't, just ping me

[18:24] <[Coke]> the items that go in Perl 5 can be new, modern things regardless.

[18:24] <El_Che> [Coke]: the most modern thing perl as added in a decade is signatures in experimental.

[18:25] <[Coke]> I do wish we had a writeup of the various detours & conversations we've already had over the last 20 years.

[18:25] <El_Che> [Coke]: but that's up to the Perl 5 people to decide where they want to go. Like I said, my irrelevant 2c

[18:25] <[Coke]> El_Che: and that has nothing to do with the name.

[18:26] <El_Che> Squatting the next major version so the whole world thinks you're dead? It a*absolutely* does.

[18:26] <Grinnz> the appearance of the ability to modernize itself has everything to do with the name.

[18:26] <[Coke]> (up to p5 people) aye. Sawyer X asked the question at the last TPC, not sure if he announced the answer.

[18:26] <El_Che> they can steal all the good features of JS, Go, Rust and .Net and still be dead because there is a slower newer version out there

[18:27] <El_Che> [Coke]: my point is that for P5, renaming is not enough

[18:27] <El_Che> [Coke]: but is a part of the solution

[18:28] <El_Che> if the major release name is freed, but Perl 5 core still misses modern OO, concurrency and a sane deployment model, the decline will not stop

[18:30] <AlexDaniel> woolfy1: yeah, the versioning is stupid

[18:30] <AlexDaniel> :)

[18:31] <AlexDaniel> I guess it was appropriate because of perl5

[18:32] <El_Che> because of reasons :)

[18:33] <El_Che> anyway, my opinion is not meant to disrespect people that have invested a lot of years on Perl 5 and 6.

[18:37] <cpan-p6> New module released to CPAN! Date::Calendar::Hebrew (0.0.2) by 03JFORGET

[18:37] <[Coke]> Thank you for the caveat, lots of strong feelings on this topic.

[18:39] *** mowcat joined
[18:39] *** mowcat left
[18:39] <AlexDaniel> woolfy1: ‚ô•

[18:40] *** sena_kun joined
[18:41] *** sena_kun left
[18:43] <El_Che> [Coke]: yeah, I wrote blog post about that in 2018 :(

[18:43] *** rindolf joined
[18:43] <El_Che> in November and I predicted the return of the discussion every 6 months. Not that far off :)

[18:45] <tadzik> hehe, there seems to be a sentiment among Perl 5 people that "damn, if only we weren't limited by the *name* and we could drop backcompat we could make Perl 5 so much better so quickly!"

[18:45] <tadzik> I... wish them all the best if they decide to go for it

[18:46] <El_Che> tadzik: yeah :(

[18:47] <rindolf> hi all

[18:47] <El_Che> o/

[18:50] *** robertle joined
[18:55] *** lichtkind_ left
[18:56] <Grinnz> tadzik: it is not an all or nothing. it is more that the name prevents many options

[18:58] <El_Che> With the small pool of people that can actually hack the core, I find it unlikely that what's needed will happen. However, for in the case it does, the proper thing to do is to help where possible. The naming mess is one of those opportunities.

[18:59] <aearnus[m]> was kinda out of the loop for a few days: did consensus settle on Raku or Camelia?

[19:00] * El_Che inserts animated gif of Homer disappearing in hte bushes

[19:00] *** pamplemousse left
[19:01] * aearnus[m] uploaded an image: tenor_gif4770222567960852367.gif (84KB) < https://matrix.org/_matrix/media/v1/download/matrix.org/YulUFgdAYgOYwpRiKLETCHdd >

[19:01] <El_Che> exactly :)

[19:05] *** aborazmeh left
[19:10] *** noisegul left
[19:12] *** aborazmeh joined
[19:12] *** aborazmeh left
[19:12] *** aborazmeh joined
[19:12] *** harmil left
[19:12] *** pilne joined
[19:15] *** AlexDaniel is now known as mom

[19:16] *** mom is now known as yourmom

[19:16] *** yourmom is now known as I`

[19:17] *** I` is now known as someone`

[19:17] *** someone` is now known as also

[19:18] *** also is now known as such

[19:18] *** such is now known as or

[19:18] *** or is now known as and

[19:18] *** and is now known as can`

[19:19] *** can` is now known as when

[19:19] *** when is now known as you`

[19:20] *** you` is now known as think

[19:21] *** think is now known as AlexDaniel

[19:21] *** AlexDaniel is now known as could

[19:21] *** could is now known as why`

[19:22] *** why` is now known as AlexDaniel

[19:22] <AlexDaniel> if anybody wonders what these nicknames are about, see this: https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6-dev?date=2019-08-21#l167

[19:23] <jdv79> you could probably test that sort of thing in a random chan...;)

[19:26] <El_Che> and miss all the fun? nooo

[19:26] <[Coke]> I'm sure he did, but when he renames himself we can all see it, no?

[19:27] <[Coke]> oh, it all happened in -dev. :|

[19:27] *** epony left
[19:38] <nepugia> is that the matrix bridge?

[19:38] <nepugia> or a matrix bridge doing that?

[19:39] *** aborazmeh left
[19:42] *** MilkmanDan left
[19:42] *** MilkmanDan joined
[19:44] * guifa just realized that woolfy1 is wendy.

[19:45] <guifa>  (sometimes it gets confusing going back and forth between github here and FB.  I‚Äôm equally as guilty with three different names ha)

[19:50] *** epony joined
[19:51] *** aborazmeh joined
[19:51] *** aborazmeh left
[19:51] *** aborazmeh joined
[19:54] <aearnus[m]> nepugia: sending the gif? I'm just using a matrix based client

[19:55] *** [Sno] joined
[20:00] *** ravenous_ left
[20:02] <AlexDaniel> jdv79: test what stuff? It's actual messages being delivered

[20:03] <AlexDaniel> basically, when yoleaux was still here it did a poor job of figuring out if the nickname is actually valid

[20:04] <AlexDaniel> so sometimes people would forget to include the nickname in the message and they'd end up being sent to random words

[20:04] <lucasb> I hope they got n0tjack's message...

[20:04] <AlexDaniel> I think that one was deliberate :)

[20:05] <lucasb> :D

[20:06] *** sjm_uk left
[20:07] <nepugia> i ment the nick stuff, the matrix bridge has a defect which i consider a serious exploit with the nicks ;(

[20:07] <AlexDaniel> guifa: it was difficult during perlcon because badges didn't even have nicknames, only real names

[20:07] <nepugia> basically if you have a matrix acc and set your nick on the irc side to a word the bridge will translate that to your matrix nickname

[20:07] <AlexDaniel> guifa: or at least most of them didn't

[20:08] <AlexDaniel> nepugia: sounds fun

[20:09] <nepugia> absolutely

[20:09] *** Sgeo_ left
[20:09] *** Sgeo_ joined
[20:17] <guifa> AlexDaniel: I wish I could have gone this year.  Hopefully going to make it next year and going to propose a talk on internationalization/localization stuff (which I should have more fleshed out by then)

[20:22] <MasterDuke> same here, mostly (wish i could have gone, going to try for next year, but not going to propose a talk on internationalization/localization stuff)

[20:25] <jdv79> AlexDaniel: it was a feature;)

[20:26] <AlexDaniel> nah

[20:26] <AlexDaniel> .tell jdv69 hello

[20:26] <tellable6> AlexDaniel, I haven't seen jdv69 around, did you mean jdv79?

[20:26] <AlexDaniel> now that's a feature

[20:27] <jdv79> what if i want to send a msg to someone that hasn't been around?

[20:28] <AlexDaniel> then you wait

[20:29] <aearnus[m]> that's what email is for :^)

[20:38] *** aborazmeh left
[20:42] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:42] *** aborazmeh left
[20:42] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:50] *** aborazmeh left
[20:56] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:56] *** aborazmeh left
[20:56] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:56] *** aborazmeh left
[20:58] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:58] *** aborazmeh left
[20:58] *** aborazmeh joined
[20:58] *** aborazmeh left
[21:01] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[21:01] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:01] *** aborazmeh left
[21:01] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:01] *** aborazmeh left
[21:06] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:06] *** aborazmeh left
[21:06] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:09] *** aborazmeh left
[21:13] *** pamplemousse joined
[21:14] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:14] *** aborazmeh left
[21:14] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:15] *** aborazmeh left
[21:20] <rba> seen: `

[21:20] <perlbot> rba: I last saw ` saying "Helo." at Fri Jul  5 03:04:35 2013 Z.

[21:20] <tellable6> rba, I saw ` 2016-12-28T17:19:46Z in #perl6: <`> heh, registered

[21:21] <rba> seen: friend

[21:21] <perlbot> rba: I last saw friend saying "hola amigos" at Thu Jul 18 23:35:43 2013 Z.

[21:21] <tellable6> rba, I haven't seen friend around, did you mean ddddddd?

[21:21] *** god joined
[21:25] <AlexDaniel> simcop2387: interesting. Seems like the bots clash on seen: command

[21:25] <AlexDaniel> I didn't know perlbot had it

[21:26] *** god left
[21:27] <simcop2387> hmm, yea seen shouldn't be working that way for perlbot.  I'll have a look tonight after work.  at least it's not something too terrible it's doing that with

[21:27] <simcop2387> it should be requiring you to address it for that

[21:27] <AlexDaniel> perlbot: seen AlexDaniel

[21:27] <perlbot> AlexDaniel: I last saw AlexDaniel saying "AlexDaniel" at Wed Aug 21 21:29:52 2019 Z.

[21:28] <AlexDaniel> simcop2387: cool, thanks

[21:29] *** pecastro joined
[21:30] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:30] *** aborazmeh left
[21:30] *** aborazmeh joined
[21:51] <woolfy1> Grinnz: it may come as a shock to you, and to others, but you are among the people who make me want to leave the Perl-community.  You are not an honest man, coming on this channel and promote whatever you want to promote.

[21:51] <Grinnz> I'm sorry you feel that way. I have been completely honest in what I have said.

[21:51] <woolfy1> Grinnz: you sat across Liz during the latest Perl Toolchain Summit, and did not utter a word to her, not even when she talked to you.  I witnessed it.  I spoke later to you and got a short but grumpy reply.  You seem to despise Perl 6 and I have no idea what you are doing here.

[21:52] <woolfy1> Grinnz: stop it.  You are among those Perl 5 people who want Perl 6 to go away.  You are not honest.

[21:53] <woolfy1> AlexDaniel: thanks for the invitation.  I will think about it.  Buit I think I have said what I wanted to say.

[21:53] <Grinnz> That is how I act with anyone. I know it can give the wrong impression and I'm sorry it did to you

[21:53] *** reach_satori joined
[21:53] *** dominix joined
[21:53] <woolfy1> To all: I am a bit sorry that the first thing I did, after going to the movies with lizmat and returning home, is to berate somebody who I consider to be a hypocrite.

[21:54] <Grinnz> Please don't project motivations on me. I am here because I have a vested interest in how both communities proceed, but I am happy to leave if it makes you feel better.

[21:54] <dominix> hi everyone, ... is there any plan for perl6 on Clear linux ?

[21:55] * bartolin hugs woolfy1 

[21:56] <woolfy1> Hi guifa...  I am indeed Wendy.  Woolfy is my nickname for over 20 years already...  :-)

[21:57] * woolfy1 hugz bartolin right back

[21:59] <woolfy1> Grinnz : I do not want you to go anywhere.  I just don't understand your presence here, other than that you want to be very sure that perl 6 f**ks off into the void.  And yes, I am grumpy and impolite.

[21:59] <Grinnz> I have a deep respect for what you both have contributed to the community, even though I make very clear my disagreements. I hope the discussion can continue with the respect it had in the issue.

[21:59] <woolfy1> Plus, I am not the one to make such a decision.

[21:59] <woolfy1> Nope, that ship has sailed for me.

[21:59] * woolfy1 exit...

[21:59] *** woolfy1 left
[22:00] <El_Che> woolfy1: Grinnz has been very polite and constructive, I don't think conflict is needed

[22:00] <tellable6> El_Che, I'll pass your message to woolfy1

[22:00] *** rindolf left
[22:04] <Grinnz> If she wants me to say that I only care what happens with Perl 6 in as much as it will affect Perl, the language and the name, then I will say that. that doesn't mean it has to be an adversarial concern.

[22:07] *** lizmat left
[22:12] <AlexDaniel> dominix: maybe? What's the policy there?

[22:13] * Doc_Holliwood attempts to build rakudo under Haiku

[22:13] <AlexDaniel> dominix: also, can you install rpms or other types of packages?

[22:17] *** aborazmeh left
[22:17] *** [Coke] left
[22:18] *** pmurias joined
[22:19] <pmurias> what happened with our Perl 6 GSoC projects?

[22:19] <pmurias> I have only seen reports for the self contained executable ones

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> pmurias: the docs one is going fine if I understand correctly

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> the one about encodings also had some progress

[22:20] <AlexDaniel> but I don't have any links‚Ä¶

[22:21] <MasterDuke> pretty sure they were linked in a weekly (maybe not both in the same one)

[22:22] <pmurias> good, I just got worried something bad happened to all of them :/

[22:22] *** aborazmeh joined
[22:22] *** aborazmeh left
[22:22] *** aborazmeh joined
[22:22] <AlexDaniel> no, I think it's fine

[22:22] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: is there an overview of all our gsoc projects? https://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2019-08-21#l728

[22:22] <tellable6> AlexDaniel, I'll pass your message to jmerelo

[22:23] <jnthn> The encodings one was a success in so far as it's resulted in support for GB2312 being added, which I believe was its goal

[22:25] <MasterDuke> pmurias: complete change of topic, but i've forgotten how truffle support is going. i think a while ago you implemented something which should free up some new low-hanging fruit?

[22:29] *** dominix_ joined
[22:32] *** dominix left
[22:47] *** aborazmeh left
[22:58] <SmokeMachine> vrurg: just to let you know if you are interested: https://gist.github.com/FCO/cc73863cf9058723176aa43781cb1f2d

[22:58] *** pecastro left
[23:00] <vrurg> SmokeMachine: Oh, how I missed it! ;) I need to think of another project for myself to play with many great stuff around.

[23:01] <SmokeMachine> vrurg: it's on a branch yet... a lot of tests to fix...

[23:02] <vrurg> SmokeMachine: My current queue of tasks is currently long enough to only dream of anything like that. :) 

[23:03] *** dolmen left
[23:05] <aearnus[m]> SmokeMachine: if you managed to integrate Red with Cro, that would totally be Perl 6's killer app

[23:06] <SmokeMachine> aearnus[m]: something like this? https://github.com/FCO/Cro-HTTP-Session-Red

[23:06] <SmokeMachine> :)

[23:06] <vrurg> aearnus[m]: Cro::HTTP::Session::Red  to start with.

[23:06] <vrurg> Ah, I'm late! 

[23:07] <rba> AlexDaniel: Is tellable6 got more IQ and acts on his own? Did he pass the turing test already?

[23:07] <vrurg> aearnus[m]: otherwise, what other level of intergation can you think of?

[23:08] <SmokeMachine> vrurg: that's a good question!

[23:10] <SmokeMachine> aearnus[m]: do you have a suggestion for that integration?

[23:14] <aearnus[m]> The session manager is nice

[23:14] * vrurg yawns... JVM backend builds...

[23:15] <aearnus[m]> I just miss my Ruby on rails `rake db:create_migration` workflow

[23:15] <SmokeMachine> aearnus[m]: https://github.com/FCO/Red/issues/15

[23:15] <vrurg> aearnus[m]: wanna try yourself in this area? 

[23:18] <aearnus[m]> Hmm, I'd like to. A lot of ORM stuff goes over my head though

[23:18] <SmokeMachine> aearnus[m]: could you comment on that thread to help me to find out how would work a good migration?

[23:29] *** yht left
[23:32] *** nicko23421 joined
[23:33] *** nicko23421 left
[23:36] <aearnus[m]> SmokeMachine: I read through that thread and I pretty much agree with everything you put forth

[23:36] <aearnus[m]> I don't think i'd have anything else on top of it. i'm looking forward to seeing how it works out :D

[23:38] <AlexDaniel> rba: yeah, pretty much

[23:39] *** [Coke] joined
[23:39] <SmokeMachine> aearnus[m]: have you seen that the CLI already started?

[23:40] <aearnus[m]> yeah, I looked at it since you sent the link

[23:41] <AlexDaniel> rba: at least you don't need to use .tell anymore, but .seen is still required I guess

[23:41] <AlexDaniel> rba: unless you talk to the bot directly

[23:41] <AlexDaniel> tellable6: rba

[23:41] <tellable6> AlexDaniel, I saw rba 2019-08-21T23:07:33Z in #perl6: <rba> AlexDaniel: Is tellable6 got more IQ and acts on his own? Did he pass the turing test already?

[23:42] <AlexDaniel> tellable6: rba and you can also pass a message like this

[23:42] <tellable6> AlexDaniel, I'll pass your message to rba

[23:42] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: you don't need to use .tell? how do you use it?

[23:42] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: just say ‚Äúnickname: I hope to see you soon!‚Äù and that's it

[23:42] <AlexDaniel> Zoffix: I miss you!

[23:42] <AlexDaniel> OK it didn't work this time xD

[23:43] <AlexDaniel> I wonder why

[23:43] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: Are you using Red for that? :P

[23:44] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: just kidding...

[23:44] <AlexDaniel> ok now I won't be able to sleep until I figure this out :D

[23:45] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: ah, actually, I know

[23:45] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: but is it saving every mentioned message?

[23:46] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: Zoffix was away for so long that tellable6 no longer thinks that it's a valid nick

[23:46] *** wildtrees left
[23:46] <AlexDaniel> the cutoff is at 3 months currently

[23:46] <AlexDaniel> but it works for anybody else, like

[23:47] <AlexDaniel> woolfy: thank you for your work!

[23:47] <tellable6> AlexDaniel, I'll pass your message to woolfy1

[23:47] <AlexDaniel> also notice how it autocorrected the nickname :)

[23:48] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: it doesn't save anything unless it say ‚ÄúI'll pass your message‚Äù. Also it saves the very last message of every user for seen functionality, but that's it

[23:48] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: it saves to send every message for people that has not said anything for X time?

[23:48] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:49] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:49] *** cpan-p6 left
[23:49] *** cpan-p6 joined
[23:49] <AlexDaniel> SmokeMachine: it'll automatically .tell if the user is currently not on the channel

[23:49] <SmokeMachine> hum...

[23:49] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: makes sense...

[23:50] <AlexDaniel> it behaves smarter than the code looks :)

[23:50] *** nepugia left
[23:50] <AlexDaniel> just a few ifs

[23:51] <SmokeMachine> AlexDaniel: seems interesting...

[23:51] <AlexDaniel> 180 lines of code https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/blob/master/xbin/Tellable.p6

[23:53] <aearnus[m]> hehe, FootgunDB

[23:54] <AlexDaniel> :D

[23:59] <aearnus[m]> is there an easy vector drawing library for perl6? i'm thinking something like Haskell's Gloss

[23:59] <aearnus[m]> (I had an itch to make one of those silly little falling sand games)

