[00:34] *** sftp left
[00:43] *** sftp joined
[00:44] *** holli__ left
[01:00] *** wamba left
[01:02] *** ape666 joined
[01:24] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:24] *** aborazmeh left
[01:24] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:25] *** Chi1thangoo left
[01:35] *** perlbot left
[01:36] *** simcop2387 left
[01:37] *** frost-lab joined
[01:46] *** perlbot joined
[01:46] *** simcop2387 joined
[01:49] *** peteretep left
[01:49] *** Grinnz left
[01:50] *** zostay left
[01:50] *** mithaldu_ left
[01:50] *** lucasb left
[01:50] *** mithaldu_ joined
[01:50] *** Grinnz joined
[01:51] *** zostay joined
[01:51] *** lucasb joined
[01:52] *** peteretep joined
[01:53] *** Sgeo left
[01:54] *** Sgeo joined
[02:04] *** sftp left
[02:09] *** zacts joined
[02:09] *** sftp joined
[02:13] *** Xliff left
[02:16] *** molaf left
[02:22] *** zacts left
[02:29] *** molaf joined
[02:33] *** Sgeo left
[02:34] *** guifa left
[02:37] *** Sgeo joined
[02:44] *** ape666 left
[02:52] *** lucasb left
[02:54] *** zacts joined
[03:03] *** ape666 joined
[03:04] *** sftp left
[03:35] *** ape666 left
[03:35] *** zacts left
[03:47] *** aborazmeh left
[03:53] *** sftp joined
[04:43] *** BenGoldberg left
[04:55] *** zacts joined
[05:00] *** zacts left
[05:07] *** bocaneri joined
[05:16] *** bocaneri left
[05:16] *** bocaneri joined
[05:27] *** skids left
[05:55] *** wamba joined
[06:04] *** kst joined
[06:25] *** parabolize left
[06:47] *** maggotbrain joined
[07:01] *** oodani left
[07:12] *** sena_kun joined
[07:19] *** rir left
[07:20] *** rir joined
[07:22] *** sjm_uk joined
[07:22] *** Woodi left
[07:26] *** jmerelo joined
[07:30] *** ufobat joined
[07:30] *** Woodi joined
[07:33] *** abraxxa left
[07:33] *** BenGoldberg joined
[07:34] *** abraxxa joined
[07:34] *** Sgeo left
[07:34] *** patrickb joined
[07:40] *** eery left
[07:40] *** eery joined
[08:03] *** rindolf joined
[08:06] *** BenGoldberg left
[08:08] *** Altai-man joined
[08:11] *** sena_kun left
[08:14] *** holli__ joined
[08:23] *** Xliff joined
[08:23] *** aborazmeh joined
[08:23] *** aborazmeh left
[08:23] *** aborazmeh joined
[08:23] <Xliff> \o

[08:24] <jmerelo> Hi, Xliff 

[08:24] <tellable6> 2020-10-27T01:45:36Z #raku <melezhik> jmerelo: hi @jmerelo!  tell me how it goes with rakudist and if you need any help, thanks 

[08:24] <jmerelo> .tell melezhik not totally sure what you're talking about...

[08:24] <tellable6> jmerelo, I'll pass your message to melezhik

[08:26] <Altai-man> jmerelo, o/

[08:27] <jmerelo> hey, Altai-man 

[08:27] <Altai-man> jmerelo, did you have any luck with building docs after attributes check?

[08:27] <Xliff> Does sub MAIN allow you to specify default as given in the signature?

[08:28] <jmerelo> Altai-man: not tried, sorry. with a cold, grading stuff for class, and then I had a backlog of other things to do. 

[08:28] <Xliff> If not, how would I go about invoking &*GENERATE-USAGE so I can do it myself?

[08:28] <jmerelo> Altai-man: I still have to go through Raku::Ecosystem

[08:29] <Altai-man> jmerelo, oh. Get well soon and take care!

[08:29] <Xliff> &*GENERATE-USAGE(&MAIN, |&MAIN.signature)?

[08:29] <jmerelo> Altai-man: thanks :-) going to be around, anyway. 

[08:29] <Altai-man> I just sorted some stuff and now will have more time for the docs project. It is like 80% finished or something as for now.

[08:30] <jmerelo> Altai-man: that would be great. They're starting to look a bit outdated... 

[08:33] <Xliff> Ah! Nevermind. Was overthinking.

[08:37] <Xliff> https://gist.github.com/Xliff/554c0017ecba46388ce0bc3ff173a183

[08:38] *** pecastro joined
[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: patrickbkr++ created pull request #3680: Remove out of place AUTHORS section

[08:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/3680

[08:47] <patrickb> jmerelo: I'm looking at https://docs.raku.org/programs/03-environment-variables and noticed it's a copy of https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/docs/running.pod with some bits removed.

[08:47] <patrickb> I think it makes sense to just link to the original page instead.

[08:48] <patrickb> I'm unsure of how to inject a link into https://docs.raku.org/programs.html though. Can you give me a pointer where to look?

[08:50] <jmerelo> patrickb: those pages are automatically generated in Documentable.

[08:51] <jmerelo> patrickb: and you know I'm not much for removing stuff. There's (almost) always a good reason to keep it, including indexing, for instance.

[08:52] <patrickb> Hm. We could automatically copy the file over from the repo. Might be a bad idea...

[08:53] <jmerelo> patrickb: there are quite a few anchor links there https://github.com/Raku/doc/blob/master/doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6 

[08:54] <jmerelo> patrickb: patching it over might be an option, but then I'd simply keep it updated through issues

[08:54] <patrickb> Ugh. OK, maybe just manually doing it from time to time is the best way forward.

[08:56] <jmerelo> patrickb: paradoxically, it looks like the option that needs the least amount of maintenance

[08:57] *** grep0r joined
[08:57] *** grep0r left
[08:58] *** frost-lab left
[09:01] *** dudz joined
[09:01] *** dudz left
[09:01] *** dudz joined
[09:24] *** domidumont joined
[09:27] <Xliff> m: &*GENERATE-USAGE.file.say; &*GENERATE-USAGE.line.say

[09:27] <camelia> rakudo-moar 85847d2f1: OUTPUT: ¬´Dynamic variable &*GENERATE-USAGE not found‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[09:28] <Xliff> m: sub USAGE { &*GENERATE-USAGE.file.say; &*GENERATE-USAGE.line.say }; sub MAIN { }; MAIN()

[09:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar 85847d2f1: ( no output )

[09:35] *** AlexDaniel joined
[09:35] *** AlexDaniel left
[09:35] *** AlexDaniel joined
[09:50] *** abraxxa left
[09:51] *** abraxxa joined
[09:52] *** Xliff left
[09:58] *** abraxxa left
[09:59] *** aborazmeh left
[09:59] *** abraxxa joined
[10:00] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: patrickbkr++ created pull request #3681: Rename and update Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6

[10:00] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/3681

[10:02] <patrickb> jmerelo: Do you think it's OK to leave the X<|> markers in the rakudo/rakudo/docs/running.pod version of the file? That would simplify the job of keeping the two files in sync.

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: 5c5955978d | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | .github/CODEOWNERS

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: Add CODEOWNERS file

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: 

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: Just testing the github feature. More about it here:

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: 

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: * https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: 

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: See this comment to understand why it may be useful:

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: <‚Ä¶commit message has 10 more lines‚Ä¶>

[10:06] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: review: https://github.com/Raku/problem-solving/commit/5c5955978d

[10:08] <Altai-man> patrickb, hi. I am now working on a long standing project of converting docs website to a dynamic one. When it is up, redirects will be nice and handy. Until now any structural changes will result in links being broken.

[10:08] <patrickb> Hi. :-)

[10:09] <patrickb> Ah. So the worry is about external links. So what this basically means is: Just don't rename the file. Right?

[10:09] <jmerelo> patrickb: you mean the original ones? I didn't check out that file. Manual updating is best anyway, different repos, different standards

[10:09] <Altai-man> Right-y.

[10:11] <patrickb> jmerelo: The two files are now identical except for the extra TITLE and SUBTITLE headers at the top and the extra X<|asdf> markers spread throughout the text.

[10:13] *** domidumont left
[10:13] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: a517aab345 | (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++ | .github/CODEOWNERS

[10:13] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: Comment out invalid CODEOWNERS entries

[10:13] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: 

[10:13] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: Otherwise github rejects the whole file.

[10:13] <Geth> ¬¶ problem-solving: review: https://github.com/Raku/problem-solving/commit/a517aab345

[10:13] <jmerelo> patrickb: ah, OK. They needn't be... The one in the documentation will probably evolve as issues arise.

[10:15] <patrickb> jmerelo: But if errors in the file are fixed or additions are made they should be fixed in both places. Keeping them in sync makes updates easier. Alternatively, should we delete the file in the rakudo repo?

[10:17] <jmerelo> patrickb: not for me to say. And I don't really think they'll be kept in sync for long... I really think updating manually when needed will be easier than maintaining a patching script

[10:18] <patrickb> I don't intend to write a script.

[10:18] <patrickb> I'll remove the X<|> thingies.

[10:19] <patrickb> In the rakudo/rakudo repo version, that is.

[10:24] <jmerelo> patrickb++

[10:24] *** rheum101 left
[10:49] *** pecastro left
[10:58] *** BenGoldberg joined
[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 1dc02c0543 | (Patrick B√∂ker)++ | doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Update Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: This file is a copy of [rakudo/docs/running.pod]<https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/docs/running.pod>

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: but ran out of sync. Merge the two files. Also now include all bits of the

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: rakudo/rakudo version of the file and not only the environment variable

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: paragraph.

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Of note this also pulls in the documentation for the new `rakuw.exe` and

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: `rakudow.exe` executables.

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/1dc02c0543

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 5e90de278a | (Patrick B√∂ker)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #3681 from patrickbkr/update-running-rakudo

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Rename and update Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6

[10:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/5e90de278a

[11:00] *** pecastro joined
[11:08] *** pecastro left
[11:09] *** rindolf left
[11:10] *** Black_Ribbon left
[11:21] *** rindolf joined
[11:23] *** pecastro joined
[11:28] *** pecastro left
[11:32] *** BenGoldberg left
[12:08] *** [Sno] joined
[12:09] *** sena_kun joined
[12:11] *** sno left
[12:11] *** Altai-man left
[12:23] <El_Che> lo

[12:37] <cpan-raku> New module released to CPAN! Array::Circular (0.0.2) by 03ELIZABETH

[12:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 7acde3f15a | (JJ Merelo)++ | META6.json

[12:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Updates deps after new release, closes #3616

[12:39] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/7acde3f15a

[12:39] <linkable6> DOC#3616 [closed]: https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/3616 [build] Fail installation of dependencies with File::Find

[12:48] <jmerelo> El_Che: hey

[12:48] *** zacts joined
[12:51] *** holli__ left
[12:53] <cpan-raku> New module released to CPAN! Sub::Memoized (0.0.4) by 03ELIZABETH

[12:53] <cpan-raku> New module released to CPAN! Hash::LRU (0.0.2) by 03ELIZABETH

[12:53] <cpan-raku> New module released to CPAN! Hash::Restricted (0.0.6) by 03ELIZABETH

[12:56] * sjn looks with puzzlement at Hash::LRU

[12:59] *** abraxxa left
[13:00] * lizmat wonders why sjn does that

[13:00] *** abraxxa joined
[13:01] <jmerelo> * me can't think of anything intelligent to say. Off to cook I go.

[13:01] <sjn> lizmat: no worries, it just took me a moment to realize what the module was

[13:02] *** jmerelo left
[13:02] <lizmat> yeah, it''s a forgettable Hash  :-)

[13:02] *** wamba left
[13:03] <sjn> Nah, I was just thrown off a little by that you didn't mention "Least Recently Used" in the NAME section :)

[13:03] *** cpan-raku left
[13:04] *** cpan-raku joined
[13:04] *** cpan-raku left
[13:04] *** cpan-raku joined
[13:04] <sjn> There was a moment when I thought "does lizmat use LRU for something else than what I'm used to?", but after reading a little more I found the answer to be "no" :)

[13:05] <lizmat> Ah, good point: fixed that for the next release

[13:05] <[Coke]> .tell altai-man (converting docs site) YAY

[13:05] <tellable6> [Coke], I'll pass your message to Altai-man

[13:06] <[Coke]> docs, env var updates... did anyone run make test on that change?

[13:06] <[Coke]> the file doesn't even pass perl6 -c

[13:08] <lizmat> maybe raku -c ?

[13:09] <sena_kun> [Coke], well, we already did 80% of the work, now just need to have enough energy and time for another 80%...

[13:12] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: coke assigned to patrickbkr Issue doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6 https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/3682

[13:12] <[Coke]> patrickb: https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/3682

[13:13] <[Coke]> lizmat: good catch, but yes, it's not valid Raku.

[13:13] *** natrys joined
[13:13] <[Coke]> maybe let's not commit something that's 80% and broken, though. :|

[13:14] * patrickb looks

[13:15] <[Coke]> Will probably pass a few of those just by fixing the POD.

[13:16] <[Coke]> there's a retest script in the ticket you can use to test just those files (those are the two my git pull happened to catch)

[13:17] <[Coke]> ++patrickb - thanks!

[13:18] <patrickb> Already running that, thanks for preparing. (To be honest, I didn't know there was any test suite for the docs. Will try to run this on larger future doc changes...)

[13:19] <[Coke]> yup. every commit used to be tested with "make test" - I didn't see anything trigger on this commit, so I'm not sure that's still running (if not, needs to be added, or reporting fixed to come here)

[13:20] <[Coke]> "make xtest" runs other tests that were determined should not be blockers to getting something committed but needed to be tracked.

[13:20] <[Coke]> if you're committing to the repo, please run TEST_FILES=<files you've not pushed yet> make xtest before pushing.

[13:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/coke/xtest-doc: 7b47f90e0e | Coke++ | writing-docs/CREATING-NEW-DOCS.md

[13:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/coke/xtest-doc: Add note about testing to writing doc overview

[13:24] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/coke/xtest-doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/7b47f90e0e

[13:24] <[Coke]> added a note there, will merge it to master at some point.

[13:27] <patrickb> What do I do about spelling errors that are actually just technical terms?

[13:29] <[Coke]> xt/pws/*.pws

[13:29] <[Coke]> You can add them there (lowercased, alphabetized)

[13:30] <[Coke]> one is for words in the prose sections, one is for "words" in code sections (anything indented or =for code)

[13:30] <[Coke]> there's a test to make sure it stays alphabetized, even.

[13:32] *** |Sno| joined
[13:34] <[Coke]> I didn't see any aspell.t failures in my run, wonder if it got further after pod changes or something.

[13:35] <[Coke]> ...oh, yah, it does basically do a pod-to-text run for that test.

[13:35] *** [Sno] left
[13:36] *** |Sno| left
[13:39] *** vrurg left
[13:41] *** vrurg joined
[13:44] <patrickb> Is there a list of allowed values in :lang<something> ?

[13:46] *** wamba joined
[13:49] <[Coke]> no. defaults to assuming Raku, and anything  perl6 or raku is tested to make sure it's compilable.

[13:50] <[Coke]> but you can put in shell, or text if you need. there's no differences, e.g. in how it's formatted on the website.

[13:50] <[Coke]> (I think)

[13:50] <patrickb> OK. So it's fine to use :lang<batch> when the code is actually windows batch stuff

[13:50] *** vrurg left
[13:50] <patrickb> What do I do about xt/type-graph.t errors? Seems unrelated to my changes...

[13:52] *** vrurg joined
[13:52] *** abraxxa left
[13:52] <[Coke]> wasn't failing before, so maybe it's now that you're pod?

[13:53] <[Coke]> if 'make test' passes, you're good to push again, anyway

[13:53] <[Coke]> then we can look at what you have to see if we can figure any new fails out

[13:54] <patrickb> That's the errors. Not sure what to make of it: https://gist.github.com/patrickbkr/aea9931575ed45b1f33b5e6f77cc3c63

[13:54] *** Sgeo joined
[13:56] <[Coke]> what version of Raku are you running that test with?

[13:57] <[Coke]> I'm at 2020.07-54-gd4bac47ff

[13:57] <patrickb> 2020.09

[13:57] <[Coke]> but yes, type-graph isn't looking at the file you changed, it's looking at type-graph.txt and Raku

[13:57] <[Coke]> oh, so it's probably been failing for a bit and I just didn't notice. :)

[13:58] <rypervenche> m: say (^Inf .grep(*.is-prime))[0];

[13:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar 85847d2f1: OUTPUT: ¬´2‚ê§¬ª

[13:58] <[Coke]> I'll update and fix it.

[13:58] <rypervenche> m: say (^Inf.grep(*.is-prime))[0];

[13:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar 85847d2f1: OUTPUT: ¬´Nil‚ê§¬ª

[13:58] <rypervenche> Why does this not work without a space?

[13:59] <sena_kun> rypervenche, Inf.grep is executed first without a space.

[13:59] <sena_kun> Alternative is `(^Inf).grep` to execute range creation first.

[14:00] <[Coke]> m: say (^Inf).grep(*.is-prime)[0]

[14:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar 85847d2f1: OUTPUT: ¬´2‚ê§¬ª

[14:00] *** vrurg left
[14:00] <[Coke]> it's precedence.

[14:00] <rypervenche> Oh! I had an extra parenthesis. I tried that, but messed up the syntax. Thanks.

[14:01] <[Coke]> https://docs.raku.org/language/operators#Operator_precedence

[14:01] <[Coke]> ah. there you go. :)

[14:01] *** vrurg joined
[14:09] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: patrickbkr++ created pull request #3683: Fix test errors in `doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6`

[14:09] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/3683

[14:23] *** BenGoldberg joined
[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 9c0c4557ee | (Patrick B√∂ker)++ | 3 files

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fix test errors in `doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6`

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/9c0c4557ee

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: cebcc2f516 | (Will Coleda)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | 3 files

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #3683 from patrickbkr/fix-test-errors

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fix test errors in `doc/Programs/03-environment-variables.pod6`

[14:33] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/cebcc2f516

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: coke++ created pull request #3684: Add note about testing to writing doc overview

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/3684

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 7b47f90e0e | Coke++ | writing-docs/CREATING-NEW-DOCS.md

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add note about testing to writing doc overview

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/7b47f90e0e

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 80217562fd | (Will Coleda)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | writing-docs/CREATING-NEW-DOCS.md

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #3684 from Raku/coke/xtest-doc

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add note about testing to writing doc overview

[14:35] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/80217562fd

[14:36] *** skids joined
[14:48] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: f7510bdd3d | Coke++ | type-graph.txt

[14:48] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Track Allomorph type hierarchy changes

[14:48] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/f7510bdd3d

[14:48] <[Coke]> ^^ patrickb - that should make 'xtest' clean on your box.

[14:48] *** zacts left
[14:51] *** parabolize joined
[14:55] *** domidumont joined
[14:57] *** BenGoldberg left
[15:24] *** pecastro joined
[15:46] *** abraxxa joined
[15:46] *** abraxxa left
[15:49] <xinming> Is there a way to specify the .precomp cache dir overlay, so we don't have many cache files under lib/

[15:53] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: fe2568f5db | Coke++ | writing-docs/CREATING-NEW-DOCS.md

[15:53] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: whitespace

[15:53] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/fe2568f5db

[15:57] *** rsonx joined
[15:59] <xinming> Seems, remove the  `use lib 'lib';` clause fixed the issue.

[16:01] <xinming> without `use lib 'lib';`  We still have cached files created under .precomp/

[16:02] * [Coke] guesses that "use lib 'lib'" shouldn't be used even with local dev, but RAKULIB instead. (to avoid issues on installation)

[16:03] <kawaii> I tend to just add .precomp to my .gitignore, and forget about it from then on :)

[16:04] <kawaii> fwiw I've never used `use lib 'lib';`, I've always done `raku -I lib/ ...` instead

[16:06] <xinming> It's the habit from perl5, with `raku -Ilib/ xxx.raku`  is the same as `use lib 'lib';` in program.

[16:07] <xinming> I just wish that we can have a central place to have all cache files, instead of having them everywhere.

[16:07] <xinming> [Coke]: Thanks, will set the $RAKULIB

[16:08] *** Altai-man joined
[16:11] *** sena_kun left
[16:16] *** mowcat joined
[16:19] *** rsonx left
[16:20] *** holli__ joined
[16:25] *** ufobat left
[16:28] *** rindolf left
[16:34] <Altreus> I much prefer to use -I lib, because that is simply a stand-in for installing the module properly

[16:34] <Altreus> use lib 'lib' means your module can never come from anywhre *except* lib

[16:34] <Altreus> whereas the normal way of using modules is to install them so that raku can find them on its own

[16:34] <Altreus> Which works even if the script is no longer near lib :)

[16:36] *** rindolf joined
[16:43] *** domidumont left
[16:46] *** sno joined
[16:55] *** zacts joined
[16:56] *** holli__ left
[16:57] *** vgrato_ joined
[16:57] *** zacts left
[17:09] *** jmerelo joined
[17:20] *** pecastro left
[17:48] *** BenGoldberg joined
[17:55] *** Geth left
[17:56] *** cpan-raku left
[18:15] *** sno left
[18:23] *** BenGoldberg left
[18:24] *** aborazmeh joined
[18:24] *** aborazmeh left
[18:24] *** aborazmeh joined
[18:37] *** skyl4rk left
[18:38] *** skyl4rk joined
[18:39] *** grumper joined
[18:40] <grumper> does moarvm still use UTF8-C8 internally/pervasively? or something else came in its place?

[18:52] *** jmerelo left
[18:54] <grumper> quiet here today - I will look at the online log in case someone answered

[18:55] <grumper> specifically we are musing about utilizing UTF8-C8 in a set of protocols, want to check whether "this was a baaaaad idea" moments cropped up in the 10 years since it was implemented originally

[18:55] *** grumper left
[19:23] <[Coke]> is utf8-c8 used/defined anywhere outside of Moar?

[19:28] <timotimo> not really, especially since it relies on the NFG mechanism for synthetic graphemes

[19:36] *** pecastro joined
[19:42] *** Black_Ribbon joined
[19:50] *** wamba left
[19:59] *** sftp left
[20:00] *** sftp joined
[20:04] *** Geth joined
[20:05] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: 498ab42e44 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | announcements/20201030.md

[20:05] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: Another formatting issue fixed

[20:05] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/Raku-Steering-Council/commit/498ab42e44

[20:09] *** sena_kun joined
[20:10] *** Altai-man left
[20:13] *** sjm_uk left
[20:13] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council: codesections++ created pull request #37: Minor formatting changes for Markdown

[20:13] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council: review: https://github.com/Raku/Raku-Steering-Council/pull/37

[20:17] *** holli__ joined
[20:24] *** aborazmeh left
[20:30] *** _jrjsmrtn left
[20:36] <tbrowder> h,

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: 4f533eab23 | (Daniel Sockwell)++ | announcements/20201030.md

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: Minor formatting changes for Markdown

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/Raku-Steering-Council/commit/4f533eab23

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: 07ecbf5854 | (Daniel Sockwell)++ | announcements/20201030.md

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: Add erroneously removed colon

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/Raku-Steering-Council/commit/07ecbf5854

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: 244387b7d2 | (Elizabeth Mattijsen)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | announcements/20201030.md

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: Merge pull request #37 from codesections-forks/annoucement-formatting

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: 

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: Minor formatting changes for Markdown

[20:36] <Geth> ¬¶ Raku-Steering-Council/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/Raku-Steering-Council/commit/244387b7d2

[20:37] <tbrowder> hi, in doc page for pythonistas, what would be best raku equiv for python hasattr func in raku MOP lingo?

[20:41] *** Kaiepi left
[20:42] *** Kaiepi joined
[20:53] *** rindolf left
[21:03] *** ChoppedBacon left
[21:05] *** ChoppedBacon joined
[21:08] *** wamba joined
[21:14] *** BenGoldberg joined
[21:18] *** mowcat left
[21:33] *** natrys left
[21:46] <Zero_Dogg> Is there any equivalent for 'perldoc' for looking up docs for installed modules? 'raku --doc' doesn't seem to look up installed modules

[21:46] <tadzik> p6doc should work

[21:47] <tadzik> I hope that's still a thing :)

[21:48] *** BenGoldberg left
[21:49] <Zero_Dogg> Didn't come with rakudo, but I can install it from zef, thanks

[22:15] *** sena_kun left
[22:45] *** Kaiepi left
[22:45] *** Kaiepi joined
[23:17] *** zacts joined
[23:19] *** zacts left
[23:19] *** moony left
[23:20] *** moony joined
[23:21] <Zero_Dogg> Do any of the various console input libraries provide an interface that's suitable for async use? Ie. I want to prompt the user, but I may also receive data from a different source, that I then want to display to the user, and then resume the prompt afterwards. I can do it by running a thread with 'start', but that will garble up the prompt when using i.e. Readline

[23:25] *** zacts joined
[23:25] *** BenGoldberg joined
[23:26] *** ape666 joined
[23:29] *** BenGoldberg left
[23:29] *** Ben_Goldberg joined
[23:29] *** Ben_Goldberg is now known as BenGoldberg

[23:36] <Zero_Dogg> Right now I'm sort of emulating it, by outputting a newline then the content I wanted to display, and then just printing the prompt. It works, sort of, but any input the user has already entered but hasn't submitted by pressing enter will be stuck on the old prompt, so it gets a tad confusing

[23:51] *** melezhik joined
[23:53] <melezhik> .tell jmerelo: another day you talked about testing some (potentially  problematic) Raku  modules during Hackaton. I suggest Rakudist as one of the solutions. So I just wonder if you've thought about that ...

[23:53] <tellable6> melezhik, I'll pass your message to jmerelo

[23:56] *** aborazmeh joined
[23:56] *** aborazmeh left
[23:56] *** aborazmeh joined
[23:59] *** ape666 left
