[02:41] *** renormalist left
[09:38] <sjn> jjatria: hey, it was good to (briefly) chat at LPW!

[09:39] <sjn> jjatria: I'm thinking about (slowly) transitioning from working on the legal stuff around supply chain metadata (the topic I spoke about at LPW) and towards implementing stuff

[09:40] <sjn> personally, I'd /love/ to use Raku+raku.land as a green field for this

[09:41] <sjn> jjatria: is this something that you'd be up for exploring too? (question goes out to everyone here, really)

[09:53] *** renormalist joined
[11:11] <jjatria> renormalist: It should, yes. We get zef author data from fez, so your data should propagate from there

[11:13] <jjatria> sjn: Same! It was nice to meet in person. As for implementing stuff, definitely! The only caveat is that in general RL has been built on the assumption that it aggregates data that is largely generated elsewhere

[11:14] <jjatria> sjn: But we do generate some data, so depending on what it is, it might fit either in RL directly or in some other project we read from

[11:26] <sjn> jjatria: would you be up for scheduling a chat about this topic? (zoom/whatever, 1h to begin with)

[11:26] <sjn> jjatria: not sure, but did you attend my talk at LPW?

[11:26] <jjatria> sjn: I did

[11:26] <jjatria> Sure. We can arrange something

[11:27] <sjn> awesome, that means you already have _some_ idea about the problem space we're in front of

[11:27] * sjn would love to explore this space further

[11:28] <jjatria> Yeah. A really damn hard one ðŸ™ˆ 

[11:28] <jjatria> I spotted this at the FOSDEM 2025 site: https://fosdem.org/2025/schedule/track/eu-policy/ They seem to have a whole devroom for this

[11:28] <jjatria> Not that it has any talks et, though

[11:29] <sjn> FOSDEM also has a dedicated SBOM devroom, in addition to one for Security

[11:29] <sjn> so at least three relevant rooms where these things can be explored

[11:29] <jjatria> Yeah, I noticed those as well. I guess there's just too much for a single track

[11:30] * sjn hopes to submit at least one talk there

[12:21] <sjn> jjatria: btw, should we move this to #cpan-security, or some other channel? (Not sure if I'm spamming with irrelevant stuff here)

[12:21] <sjn> this discussion*

[12:22] <jjatria> sjn: yeah, probably :)

[12:23] <sjn> Or, we could just set the topic for this channel, and define it thereby to be in-scope :-D

[12:23] <sjn> metadata/security/supply-chain might be "close enough", after all

[12:23] <sjn> <- sent a /msg to jjatria 

[13:15] <renormalist> jjatria: thanks, so I think it doesn't work currently, I expected at least my website and/or my email address there. I'm not complaining, just reporting. If someone points me to how I can contribute anything, I'm happy to help.

[13:28] <lizmat> renormalist: re naming of module: why not call it Data::DPath?   Without the 6 ?

[13:29] <lizmat> also, in documentation, we usually refer to Perl as "Perl", not as "Perl5"

[13:29] <renormalist> Yeah, fair point, that was a question I wanted to discuss if there are naming conventions for ports.

[13:29] <renormalist> ACK on Perl (without 5).

[13:30] <renormalist> So when you say just Data::DPath (without 6) is fine, then I will just do it. As it would otherwise mean to do it everywhere with the 6 with every module I port which is obviously ridiculous.

[13:31] <lizmat> indeed

[13:31] <renormalist> My primary point of view was that I will end up uploading it to CPAN and there it would confuse somehow.

[13:31] <lizmat> see e.g. https://raku.land/?q=Tie

[13:31] <lizmat> those are all ports from Perl

[13:31] <renormalist> Yeah, cool, I'm already convinced, thanks. :-)

[13:32] <lizmat> although CPAN does support uploading of Raku modules, it is really not used for new modules anymore

[13:32] <renormalist> Ok. And should I cleanup my mess on zef ecosystem somehow?

[13:33] <renormalist> (haven't checkied if there is some delete operation there)

[13:33] <lizmat> fez remove 'Data::DPath6:ver<0.0.1>:auth<zef:renormalist>'

[13:34] <lizmat> should still work (as it has been less than 24 hours since you uploaded)

[13:34] <lizmat> same for Data::DPath6:ver<0.0.2>:auth<zef:renormalist>

[13:34] <renormalist> Ok, thanks, will do.

[16:39] *** renormalist left
[16:43] *** renormalist joined
[16:44] <renormalist> Ah, I guess my info isn't updated because raku.land was last built 17h ago. https://raku.land/build

[17:01] *** renormalist left
[17:36] *** renormalist joined
[17:41] *** lizmat_ joined
[17:45] *** lizmat left
[18:58] *** renormalist left
[19:00] *** ss5 joined
[19:01] *** ss5 is now known as renormalist

[19:02] *** renormalist left
[19:06] *** renormalist joined
[19:07] *** renormalist left
[19:07] *** renormalist joined
[19:10] *** renormalist left
[19:14] *** renormalist joined
[19:16] *** renormalist left
[19:16] *** renormalist joined
[19:23] *** renormalist left
[19:25] *** renormalist joined
[19:26] *** renormalist left
[19:30] *** renormalist joined
[22:40] *** renormalist left
[22:40] *** renormalist joined
[23:26] *** lizmat_ left
[23:26] *** lizmat joined
[23:28] <lizmat> jjatria: looks like raku.land updating is stuck

