[00:01] *** lizmat joined
[00:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[00:11] *** epony left
[00:12] *** rindolf left
[00:36] *** epony joined
[00:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v epony

[01:19] *** Herby_ joined
[01:19] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Herby_

[01:19] <Herby_>  o/

[01:20] <timotimo> \o

[01:22] <Herby_> timotimo: how goes it?

[01:23] <timotimo> it's a'ight

[01:23] <timotimo> and you?

[01:24] <Herby_> 'bout the same

[01:24] <timotimo> i'm all 'bout that same, 'bout that same

[01:26] <timotimo> https://twitter.com/loltimo/status/1048643377301016577 - look, i made a colorful

[01:27] <Herby_> timotimo: awesome. what hardware you using?

[01:30] <timotimo> it was a piece of hardware that a german electronics online/phone store offered a couple of years ago

[01:31] <timotimo> it was supposed to be a picture frame, you could upload jpegs and it'd give you a slideshow

[01:31] <timotimo> and there was a debug mode that would let you flash updates, so people went ahead and wrote their own custom firmware

[01:31] *** NewbieG joined
[01:31] *** NewbieG left
[01:32] <timotimo> https://vimeo.com/97657374 - oooh this is fun

[01:49] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:49] *** aborazmeh left
[01:49] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[01:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[01:56] <timotimo> gnite

[01:56] *** aborazmeh left
[01:57] *** molaf left
[01:59] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:59] *** aborazmeh left
[01:59] *** aborazmeh joined
[01:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[02:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[02:02] <Herby_> night!

[02:04] *** aborazmeh left
[02:05] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[02:06] *** Kaiepi left
[02:06] *** epony left
[02:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[02:07] *** Kaiepi joined
[02:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kaiepi

[02:09] *** b2gills left
[02:09] *** cognominal-p6 left
[02:09] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[02:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[02:10] *** molaf joined
[02:11] *** aborazmeh joined
[02:11] *** aborazmeh left
[02:11] *** aborazmeh joined
[02:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[02:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v molaf

[02:11] *** epony joined
[02:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v epony

[02:12] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[02:17] *** aborazmeh left
[02:29] *** cognominal-p6 left
[02:34] *** kurahaupo left
[02:34] *** kurahaupo joined
[02:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[02:41] *** b2gills joined
[02:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v b2gills

[02:48] *** ufobat_ joined
[02:48] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ufobat_

[02:51] *** fake_space_whale left
[02:51] *** ufobat___ left
[02:52] *** Herby_ left
[02:53] *** epony left
[03:00] *** epony joined
[03:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v epony

[03:04] *** epony left
[03:04] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:04] *** aborazmeh left
[03:04] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[03:04] *** epony joined
[03:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v epony

[03:05] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[03:09] *** aborazmeh left
[03:11] *** epony left
[03:13] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:13] *** aborazmeh left
[03:13] *** aborazmeh joined
[03:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[03:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v aborazmeh

[03:18] *** epony joined
[03:18] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v epony

[03:20] *** epony left
[03:32] *** aborazmeh left
[03:33] *** epony joined
[03:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v epony

[03:51] *** w_richard_w joined
[03:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v w_richard_w

[04:03] *** Zoffix joined
[04:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[04:13] *** w_richard_w left
[04:14] *** w_richard_w joined
[04:14] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v w_richard_w

[04:33] <Zoffix> New blog post: "A Request to Larry Wall to Create a Language Name Alias for Perl 6": https://perl6.party/post/A-Request-to-Larry-Wall-to-Create-a-Language-Name-Alias-for-Perl-6

[04:44] *** itaipu left
[04:46] *** Zoffix left
[04:47] *** mahafyi left
[04:48] *** mahafyi joined
[04:48] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v mahafyi

[04:58] *** w_richard_w left
[05:21] *** cryptkuq joined
[05:21] *** cryptkuq left
[05:21] *** [particle] left
[05:25] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[05:26] *** [particle] joined
[05:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[05:27] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v [particle]

[05:29] *** fbynite joined
[05:30] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fbynite

[05:39] *** [particle]1 joined
[05:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v [particle]1

[05:41] *** [particle] left
[05:47] *** TimToady left
[05:49] *** cognominal-p6 left
[05:49] *** fbynite left
[05:49] *** kerframil left
[05:50] *** fbynite joined
[05:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fbynite

[06:08] *** fbynite left
[06:08] *** fbynite joined
[06:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fbynite

[06:18] *** peach_alcohol joined
[06:19] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v peach_alcohol

[06:26] *** peach_alcohol left
[06:28] *** fbynite left
[06:32] *** TimToady joined
[06:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v TimToady

[06:32] *** jmerelo joined
[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: b620e944e2 | (Nacho Mas)++ | doc/Language/math.pod6

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Corrects some imprecissions in the "Doing math with Perl_6" article

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: * Disclaimer about the purported mathematical field nature of Rat, Num

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc:   and Complex

[06:32] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/math

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: * Rephrases the Int section to be more consistent

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: * Matrices are not, in general, a field but a ring

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: * Hamilton's quaternions are not a field, but an algebra over the real

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc:   numbers

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: * Claiming that â„ is a sequence makes very little sense from a

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc:   mathematical standpoint. Lacking further explanation/justification,

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc:   the reference should be dropped until it can be given some meaning.

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b620e944e2

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 1c884f9259 | (Nacho Mas)++ | doc/Language/math.pod6

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Fixes typo

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/1c884f9259

[06:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 82e85b5e9c | (Juan JuliÃ¡n Merelo GuervÃ³s)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/math.pod6

[06:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Merge pull request #2362 from cronos2/master

[06:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 

[06:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Corrects some imprecisions in the "Doing math with Perl 6" article

[06:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Thanks a lot!

[06:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/82e85b5e9c

[06:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jmerelo

[06:35] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œCheck table names before creating themâ€: https://github.com/FCO/Red/issues/52#issuecomment-427629764

[06:36] *** STKJasper joined
[06:37] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v STKJasper

[06:38] *** STKJasper left
[06:49] *** domidumont joined
[06:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[06:50] *** Xliff joined
[06:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Xliff

[06:51] <Xliff> Squashathon still going?

[06:51] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[06:51] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ5 hours. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[06:52] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/7a08c9527a56fe1448985892492cd810

[06:52] <jmerelo> Xliff: ^^^

[06:52] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ opened pull request â€œReorganizes examplesâ€: https://github.com/FCO/Test-Fuzz/pull/12

[06:53] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ opened issue â€œWeird error in test.p6â€: https://github.com/FCO/Test-Fuzz/issues/13

[06:59] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ edited issue â€œWeird error in test.p6â€: https://github.com/FCO/Test-Fuzz/issues/13

[07:05] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ opened pull request â€œFixes exampleâ€: https://github.com/FCO/Test-Fuzz/pull/14

[07:06] <Xliff> jj: Missing a few constants. Did you want standard gravity (g), electron-mass, neutron-mass and proton-mass?

[07:06] <Xliff> Let me know and I will write the tests and submit a PR

[07:07] <jmerelo> Xliff: if I remember correctly, I should have the first two, not the others. By all means, give them a try. Thanks!

[07:07] <Xliff> Is Constants.pm for constants not found in Parser/ ?

[07:08] <jmerelo> Xliff: sorry, what?

[07:08] <Xliff> p6-Math-Parser has a Constants.pm and another file called ebyteParse-output.txt

[07:09] *** telex joined
[07:09] <Xliff> I can find some of the constants I mentioned in the 2nd file, but not in the first.

[07:09] <jmerelo> Xliff: not mine, I think. 

[07:09] <Xliff> OK.

[07:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v telex

[07:09] <jmerelo> Xliff: oh, yes, that was mine. 

[07:10] <jmerelo> A PR I didn't remember

[07:10] <jmerelo> Sorry

[07:10] <jmerelo> So, back to this "Constants.pm for constants not found in Parser/"

[07:11] <jmerelo> Xliff: it should be in lib/Math/Constants.pm6

[07:11] <Xliff> OK, then. Now I feel silly, because my changes are GONE.

[07:11] <Xliff> TYou have universal G, but not standard g

[07:12] <Xliff> Electron mass, photon mass and neutron mass are not in Constants.pm

[07:12] <jmerelo> Xliff: then g would be great. And the rest too, I guess :-) Thanks!

[07:12] <Xliff> And there are a lot more listed in the second file, but not in Constants.pm

[07:12] <Xliff> I will regen and send a quick PR, then.

[07:13] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ synchronize pull request â€œAdd magnetic permittivitâ€¦â€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/9

[07:13] <jmerelo> Xliff: do a pull --rebase, I'm solving conflicts with older PRs 

[07:15] *** vxe_ joined
[07:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v vxe_

[07:16] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ merged pull request â€œAdd magnetic permittivitâ€¦â€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/9

[07:19] <Xliff> OK. Done.

[07:20] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œBuild a URI from partsâ€: https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/uri/issues/27#issuecomment-427631821

[07:21] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ closed pull request â€œAdded Avogadro's number and Alpha particle massâ€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/11

[07:23] <Xliff> uniname: c

[07:23] <Xliff> .uniname: c

[07:23] *** itaipu joined
[07:23] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œAdded Eulerâ€“Mascheroni constantâ€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/13#issuecomment-427631996

[07:23] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ closed pull request â€œAdded Eulerâ€“Mascheroni constantâ€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/13

[07:24] <Xliff> m: c.uniname.say

[07:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar 2d7724f8b: OUTPUT: Â«5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>â¤Undeclared routine:â¤    c used at line 1â¤â¤Â»

[07:24] <Xliff> m: 'c'.uniname.say

[07:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar 2d7724f8b: OUTPUT: Â«LATIN SMALL LETTER Câ¤Â»

[07:24] <Xliff> m: 'c'.uniname.say

[07:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar 2d7724f8b: OUTPUT: Â«LATIN SMALL LETTER Câ¤Â»

[07:24] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v itaipu

[07:24] <Xliff> m: 'c'.uniname.say

[07:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar 2d7724f8b: OUTPUT: Â«LATIN SMALL LETTER Câ¤Â»

[07:28] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œTest fails with old versions of Perl 6â€: https://github.com/perl6/DBIish/issues/132#issuecomment-427632197

[07:28] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ closed issue â€œTest fails with old versions of Perl 6â€: https://github.com/perl6/DBIish/issues/132

[07:28] *** itaipu left
[07:32] <squashable6> ğŸ• Xliff++ opened pull request â€œAdds new constantsâ€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/17

[07:32] <squashable6> ğŸ•ğŸ•ğŸ•  First contribution by Xliff++! â™¥

[07:32] <Xliff> YAY!

[07:32] <Xliff> And with that, I will prolly depart until tomorrow.

[07:33] <jmerelo> Xliff: waiting for tests, will accept soon-ish. Thanks! Sleep well :-)

[07:33] <Xliff> Wondering if there are Perl6 bindings to GTK::Pixbuf.

[07:33] <Xliff> I don't see anything on modules.perl6.org

[07:33] <jmerelo> Xliff: probably not

[07:33] <Xliff> Cool. Thanks.

[07:40] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ merged pull request â€œAdds new constantsâ€: https://github.com/JJ/p6-math-constants/pull/17

[07:50] *** rindolf joined
[07:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v rindolf

[08:00] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ opened pull request â€œAdds some benchmarksâ€: https://github.com/timo/json_fast/pull/52

[08:09] <squashable6> ğŸ•ğŸ•ğŸ•  First contribution by araraloren++! â™¥

[08:34] *** mahafyi left
[08:45] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[08:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[08:51] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[08:51] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ3 hours. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[08:51] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/afe535d4478d0dd043a08e758930b6fe

[08:51] <jmerelo> We're almost there!

[08:53] *** typebrook joined
[08:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v typebrook

[08:55] *** Nasqum joined
[08:55] *** Nasqum left
[08:58] <squashable6> ğŸ• jonathanstowe++ wrote a comment on â€œBuild a URI from partsâ€: https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/uri/issues/27#issuecomment-427637088

[08:59] *** kensanata joined
[08:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kensanata

[08:59] *** cognominal-p6 left
[09:00] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[09:00] *** typebrook left
[09:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[09:08] *** typebrook joined
[09:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v typebrook

[09:21] *** dct joined
[09:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v dct

[09:25] <lizmat> weekly: https://6guts.wordpress.com/2018/10/06/speeding-up-object-creation/

[09:25] <notable6> lizmat, Noted!

[09:27] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œsake helpâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/22#issuecomment-427638735

[09:32] *** cognominal-p6 left
[09:32] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[09:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v HaraldJoerg

[09:36] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake: JJ++ created pull request #24: Adds sake help (maybe) closes #22

[09:36] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake: review: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[09:36] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ opened pull request â€œAdds sake help (maybe) closes #22â€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[09:36] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ requested a review on pull request â€œAdds sake help (maybe) closes #22â€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[09:37] <jmerelo> And that's my last contribution to the Squashathon for this month :-)

[09:40] <squashable6> ğŸ• jonathanstowe++ wrote a comment on â€œBuild a URI from partsâ€: https://github.com/perl6-community-modules/uri/issues/27#issuecomment-427639438

[09:40] *** pmurias joined
[09:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pmurias

[09:47] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[09:48] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[09:53] *** quester left
[09:59] *** cognominal-p6 left
[09:59] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[10:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[10:22] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[10:22] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ExtraCrispy

[10:28] *** cognominal-p6 left
[10:32] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 4155d5611e | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/5to6-nutshell.pod6

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Minor rewriting related to #2277

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/4155d5611e

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 13f5943c19 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Expanding and adding examples to circumfix []

[10:32] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/5to6-nutshell

[10:32] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Which would close #2360 if everyone is happy with it. It's the best

[10:32] <Geth> Â¦ doc: one can do meanwhile the contexts are not better explained, as

[10:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: requested in #1225.

[10:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/13f5943c19

[10:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: f14525ade5 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[10:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Makes code

[10:33] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/f14525ade5

[10:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[10:38] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[10:38] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in â‰ˆ1 hour. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[10:38] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/5c29463d31cc1b15eaaedaa00bf3aaae

[10:38] <jmerelo> Anyone around? Anyone wants to have a go at it?

[10:39] *** cognominal-p6 left
[10:40] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[10:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[10:44] *** ChoHag joined
[10:45] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ChoHag

[10:50] *** kanbas joined
[10:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kanbas

[10:53] *** ExtraCrispy left
[10:57] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[10:57] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ExtraCrispy

[11:01] *** kurahaupo left
[11:02] *** kurahaupo joined
[11:02] *** kurahaupo left
[11:03] *** cognominal-p6 left
[11:03] *** kurahaupo joined
[11:03] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[11:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[11:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[11:10] *** robertle joined
[11:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v robertle

[11:34] *** chienjo joined
[11:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v chienjo

[11:35] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: status

[11:35] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event is in 24 minutes. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[11:35] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/35a9f99acf7b5762aac8ad145535c8b7

[11:35] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: go at what? :)

[11:36] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: the issues, I guess

[11:37] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: can you move the test to t/30-help.t ?

[11:37] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: sure

[11:37] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: this one I mean https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[11:40] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ synchronize pull request â€œAdds sake help (maybe) closes #22â€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[11:42] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: what about testing the full output?

[11:44] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: not sure about where it is

[11:44] <jmerelo> Let me have a try

[11:45] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: I mean instead of /Registered/

[11:45] <AlexDaniel> just test for ï½¢Registered tasks: â€¦ â€¦ â€¦ â€¦ â€¦ï½£ fully

[11:45] <AlexDaniel> because, well, why not :)

[11:46] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ synchronize pull request â€œAdds sake help (maybe) closes #22â€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[11:46] <AlexDaniel> .tell kensanata heh, we talked about it yesterday :) https://perl6.party/post/A-Request-to-Larry-Wall-to-Create-a-Language-Name-Alias-for-Perl-6

[11:46] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: I'll pass your message to kensanata.

[11:47] <kensanata> .

[11:47] <yoleaux> 11:46Z <AlexDaniel> kensanata: heh, we talked about it yesterday :) https://perl6.party/post/A-Request-to-Larry-Wall-to-Create-a-Language-Name-Alias-for-Perl-6

[11:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œAdds sake help (maybe) closes #22â€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24#issuecomment-427647095

[11:48] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake/master: 4 commits pushed by (JJ Merelo)++, (Aleks-Daniel Jakimenko-Aleksejev)++

[11:48] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake/master: 1bf3123903 | Adds sake help (maybe) closes #22

[11:48] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake/master: abbecd395f | Moving test to other place as requested by @alexdaniel

[11:48] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake/master: 7d5846f4a5 | Testing full output as requested by @alexdaniel

[11:48] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake/master: 9588ee92cd | Merge pull request #24 from JJ/master

[11:48] <Geth> Â¦ p6-sake/master: review: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/compare/ab5ff722508a...9588ee92cd67

[11:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ merged pull request â€œAdds sake help (maybe) closes #22â€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/pull/24

[11:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ closed issue â€œsake helpâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/22

[11:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ unlabeled issue â€œsake helpâ€ (hacktoberfest): https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/22

[11:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œsake helpâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/22#issuecomment-427647121

[11:48] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ reopened issue â€œsake helpâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/22

[11:49] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[11:49] <squashable6> jmerelo, ğŸ•ğŸ• SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event is in 10 minutes. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[11:49] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/c77da4997889ae183acba9654a0889db

[11:50] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œâ€œSakeâ€ is overused, come up with something elseâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/19#issuecomment-427647224

[11:56] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œâ€œSakeâ€ is overused, come up with something elseâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/19#issuecomment-427647566

[11:57] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œâ€œSakeâ€ is overused, come up with something elseâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/19#issuecomment-427647642

[11:58] <squashable6> ğŸ• AlexDaniel++ wrote a comment on â€œâ€œSakeâ€ is overused, come up with something elseâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/19#issuecomment-427647705

[11:59] <squashable6> ğŸ• JJ++ wrote a comment on â€œâ€œSakeâ€ is overused, come up with something elseâ€: https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/19#issuecomment-427647790

[12:00] *** Hotkeys left
[12:03] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: that's not the most optimistic way to look at things! :)

[12:03] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I still like ake

[12:03] <AlexDaniel> I'm fine with ake

[12:04] <jmerelo> I mean, it's like looking for a parking space. You can pick whatever one you have handy, or you can go further and further away from your destination looking for an easier, or nicer, one.

[12:04] <AlexDaniel> but they're building a new parking lot over there! All I have to do is just wait a little bit!

[12:05] <AlexDaniel> :)

[12:05] <jmerelo> If eventually Ã¾erl is chosen (which it will, because it's the nicest), we can always change it back to Ã¾ake. But it's been sake for some period of time, it might change to ake for a limited period...

[12:05] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: right :-)

[12:05] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: ... then maybe perl6 gets a new alias, and we want to change it to whatever makes it more similar to that name... Or not, because everybody loves ake by then.

[12:06] *** cognominal-p6 left
[12:07] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[12:07] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 25 days and â‰ˆ21 hours (2018-11-03 UTC-12âŒUTC+14). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[12:08] <jmerelo> and rien ne va plus. It's finished.

[12:08] <AlexDaniel> yeeeeeey

[12:08] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I would say it's worked pretty well, right?

[12:08] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: terrific work with the hooks.

[12:09] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: and the modules, and everything. Kudos.

[12:09] <pmurias> jmerelo: re Ã¾erl are you tring to be sarcastic ;)

[12:09] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: thanks!

[12:10] <jmerelo> pmurias: no, why? I love it. It looks a little bit like Perl, uses my favorite Icelandic character, Ã¾

[12:10] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: log 2018-10-06

[12:10] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/e791b677a4f9a144590cefa6d20bc49d

[12:16] *** lizmat left
[12:18] *** lizmat joined
[12:18] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[12:22] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: yea, it went well. I liked all the interactions

[12:22] *** chienjo left
[12:26] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[12:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[12:29] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: do we have a winner?

[12:29] <AlexDaniel> looking at it right now

[12:30] <AlexDaniel> sorted by contributor name: https://gist.github.com/AlexDaniel/bfceb2756155ab57c35b8c7c1ea7d6dd

[12:31] <AlexDaniel> you have done 38% of all PRsâ€¦

[12:32] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: accepted a few of them too...

[12:36] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: and you are first :-) Congrats

[12:37] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: what do you mean? I don't thinkh having a name starting with â€œAâ€ is a win?

[12:37] <jmerelo> Ah, OK. Alphabetical order. Too close to siesta and lunch. I'm not reading correctly...

[12:37] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Oddmuse-0.0.2.tar.gz by SCHROEDER http://modules.perl6.org/dist/Oddmuse6:cpan:SCHROEDER

[12:37] * jmerelo goes AFK

[12:38] *** jmerelo left
[12:48] *** ExtraCrispy left
[12:58] *** cognominal-p6 left
[13:00] *** araraloren joined
[13:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v araraloren

[13:03] <El_Che> Zoffix: your blog post is greatly appreciated

[13:04] <AlexDaniel> yes

[13:06] <AlexDaniel> I found it somewhat surprising that it didn't propose some specific alias

[13:06] <moritz> that's a very useful tactic

[13:06] <AlexDaniel> but I guess there's a reason for that

[13:06] <El_Che> yeah

[13:06] <moritz> because it means you aren't conflating calling for an alias with promoting one particular alias

[13:06] <moritz> +1 on that

[13:07] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[13:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[13:08] <El_Che> is als a more fundamental question to TimToady, than 1 specific name. 

[13:08] <El_Che> so you can be OK with an alias, but not ok with one specific one

[13:11] <AlexDaniel> fwiw I'd be OK with any alias as long as it doesn't have â€œperlâ€ in it. I'm just too tired

[13:12] <kensanata> After all these years, I'm fortified!

[13:12] <kensanata> I started saying Perl 5 instead of Perl, for example...

[13:14] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: but do you write perlÂ 6 with a non-breaking space? :P

[13:14] <CIAvash> How would an alias actually work? Everywhere(website, docs, excecutable, ...) mentions PerlÂ 6 but we call it something else?

[13:15] <kensanata> AlexDaniel: I'm sure that's not part of the name, and no trademark registry would allow for it, so for all indents and purposes, even if you believed it to be necessary, it'd be a joke. ğŸ˜›

[13:16] *** cognominal-p6 left
[13:16] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[13:16] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: I'm serious

[13:17] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: it doesn't need to be part of the trademark, I'm just asking if *you* write it with nbsp

[13:17] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[13:17] <kensanata> AlexDaniel: Of course not.

[13:17] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: because if you don't, and say you write a blog post

[13:17] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: then â€œPerlâ€ and â€œ6â€ can be broken into separate lines

[13:18] <AlexDaniel> which makes it look rather weird

[13:18] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: so for the documentation and everything, we try to use nbsp

[13:18] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: and we recommend others to do the same :)

[13:18] <kensanata> AlexDaniel: But doesn't that happen to all sorts of names? Even words are split accross lines. The question of typography is separate from the name.

[13:19] <kensanata> So having a convention saying please use a non-breaking space between A and B is fine, but the *name* still consists of A and B.

[13:19] <AlexDaniel> sure, yes

[13:20] <AlexDaniel> but I liked your â€œOf course not.â€ answer :)

[13:20] <kensanata> https://framapic.org/vzeEWQ3zMu8M/q6g4tmptm084.png

[13:21] <kensanata> I wanted to fix it, but now I'm going to leave it, as a statement.

[13:22] <AlexDaniel> kensanata: do you have compose key configured?

[13:22] <kensanata> Of course! Caps lock it is.

[13:22] <AlexDaniel> I think `compose space space` should give a non-breaking space on most systems

[13:23] <kensanata> Yes, that's true.

[13:23] <AlexDaniel> .tell jmerelo I'll take a little break and then will write a page for results

[13:23] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[13:23] <El_Che> In case TimToady is reading: please veto names with spaces in it, and everything needing a compose key :)

[13:24] <kensanata> Haha

[13:24] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: but ğŸ¦‹!

[13:24] <kensanata> Better limit ourselves to ASCII.

[13:24] <AlexDaniel> :)

[13:24] <moritz> what about  é§±é§é“? </troll>

[13:26] <kensanata> It's name is ğŸ¦‹ but we call it "butterfly". ğŸ¦‹ is the language, "butterfly" is the name of the language, because we don't want to use "Perl 6" since it's associated with "Perl" which other people might not like. Also, "Perl 6" is the name for a Perl programming language and "Perl 5" is also a name for a Perl programming language, but a different one. It's more like a set, not sequenceâ€¦

[13:26] <El_Che> Æ¬ÌµÌ¬ÌŠ the artist formely known as prince-vibe

[13:27] <kensanata> El_Che: I'll admit it. This is cool.

[13:29] <CIAvash> Has anybody thought about what happens after an alias is chosen? Are there going to be any changes to the website and docs?

[13:30] <lizmat> I think everybody knows my stance in this

[13:31] <lizmat> I would also like to have people think about what this would mean for conferences and stands at conferences

[13:34] *** Zoffix joined
[13:34] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[13:34] <Zoffix> lizmat: I don't remember what your stance on it is. All I recall is you saying it won't happen

[13:34] <yoleaux> 10:13Z <brrt> Zoffix: Summation -> Summary, Numerious -> Numerous

[13:35] <Zoffix> lizmat: I don't see much happening with conferences, since it's not a rename.

[13:35] <timotimo> i'm 100% on board with getting a name that gives us the same acronym as brainfuck (re: butterfly)

[13:35] <El_Che> I think lizmat has a good point, Zoffix. But we'll cross that bridge if we get there

[13:35] <CIAvash> Because at the very least it can add a new layer of confusion, people hear name X and then see PerlÂ 6 and wonder what that is about

[13:36] <Zoffix> CIAvash: I thought yes. We ban all blanket name changes and let people use whatever name they prefer when writing content. This will make one of the names superior to the other, based on the amount of use.

[13:38] <moritz> so, I visited a talk by Damian Conway, and the organizers told him not to use the name Perl until the end, because people might walk away

[13:38] <moritz> dunno if that was warranted, but he did

[13:38] <El_Che> moritz: whut?

[13:38] <Zoffix> El_Che: someone on Facebook brought that up as well. They posted a bunch of pictures of "PerlConf" and "The Perl Conference" and said the alias would affect it. What I don't understand is why a "Perl" (as opposed to "Perl 6") conference is a perfect fit. I can't know whether there will be any Perl 6 talks at all unless I look at the program. Same would be with the alias name. 

[13:38] <moritz> and called it "Albus", after a certain wizard, and because the language was pretty magical

[13:38] *** cognominal-p6 left
[13:38] <moritz> and I kinda liked it

[13:39] <moritz> short, has a positive annotation, and I'm not aware of other software with that name

[13:39] <El_Che> Zoffix: I don't think it will be a problem, but it will be something to take into account, in lizmat's conf role

[13:39] <moritz> El_Che: this talk was organized by Frankfurt.pm, but in collaboration with a pretty general web development conference, and hosted by a university

[13:40] <Zoffix> +1 on Albus, though I'd settle for any non-offensive, non-joke name that doesn't have whitespace or numbers in it :)

[13:40] <moritz> it's the first proposed alias for Perl 6 that I actually liked

[13:41] <El_Che> I am very fond of the rakudo name, but like zoffix I am in the everything-non-silly-is-better camp

[13:43] <CIAvash> Zoffix: what do you mean by "We ban all blanket name changes"?

[13:44] *** ChoHag left
[13:45] <Zoffix> CIAvash: like, no commits that just go in and change every instance of "Perl 6" to "Albus". 

[13:45] *** ChoHag joined
[13:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ChoHag

[13:46] <Zoffix> And I guess contested spaces (e.g. title of homepage) would just be the same as how bilingual countries do signs and stuf: "The Perl 6/Albus Programming Language"

[13:48] <pmurias> Zoffix: re why having joint Perl 5&6 conferences makes sense, the vast majority of Perl 5 people at conferences like Perl 6 and a lot of people are part of both communities

[13:49] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[13:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[13:50] *** vike1 left
[13:50] <Zoffix> pmurias: that wasn't my question tho.

[13:51] <CIAvash> Zoffix: if people call it whatever they want, wouldn't that make it hard to find the content? I'm a bit confused, if the amount of the usage of a name is important, where does TimToady come in?

[13:52] <Zoffix> pmurias: the question was: "Why is 'The Perl Conference' a perfect fit for a language named 'Perl 6'?" And that question was made in response to a claim that creating an alias would make it hard for people to find Alias conferences. Yet, they don't seem to have trouble finding them, without the language name being featured in the conferences right now

[13:53] <El_Che> to be blunt, the perl5+6 communities are to small to have separated conferences

[13:54] <Zoffix> CIAvash: by "whatever they want" I meant either "Perl 6" or $Alias. TimToady comes in to bless some particular alias so instead of using Camelia, Rakudo, Albus, the folks who don't want to use Perl 6 name can use a single thing

[13:54] <El_Che> for people that use both, it's an advantage :)

[13:54] <pmurias> Zoffix: 'The Perl Conference' name itself doesn't tell you if it's a Perl 5 or Perl 6 or both conference

[13:54] <Zoffix> pmurias: yes, that's my point

[13:55] <Zoffix> CIAvash: as for finding content, yes it's not ideal, but IMO overall still better than doing nothing, especially since currently DuckDuckGo gives you Perl 5 content when you search for "perl6 argv" for example, so it's not like search is perfect at the moment.

[13:56] <Zoffix> CIAvash: and a pro: using alias in search will give you recent content instead of all those deeply outdated old Perl 6 articles :)

[13:59] <Zoffix> And I'll take search problems over The Damian being told not to mention the name of the language any day :)

[13:59] * Zoffix returns to being sick &

[13:59] *** Zoffix left
[13:59] <pmurias> Zoffix: get well soon

[14:01] <pmurias> Zoffix: I understand why you want to do have an alias, but I think the choice of the alias is important, as a bad one doesn't seem like a win

[14:02] <moritz> I don't think anybody disagrees with that

[14:03] <moritz> but it might help to decouple the discussion "do we want an alias name, assuming a good one can be found?" from the discussion "what should the alias name be?"

[14:05] *** cognominal-p6 left
[14:06] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[14:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[14:07] *** vike joined
[14:07] <kensanata> I'll just say that my interest in Perl 6 was rekindled after going to a Perl Workshop thinking it was going to be all about Perl 5...

[14:07] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v vike

[14:10] <moritz> one of the reasons we don't want to get rid of the "Perl 6" name

[14:13] <pmurias> moritz: most of the proposed alias name are at best neutral (they don't have any connotations)

[14:24] *** lichtkind joined
[14:25] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lichtkind

[14:28] *** lizmat left
[14:31] <pmurias> hmm, what should I use to replace the misaligned Sample selector from dartpad (https://dartpad.dartlang.org/) on 6pad?

[14:35] *** vike left
[14:37] <pmurias> or does it the select look horrible only to me?

[14:39] *** Kaiepi left
[14:40] *** Kaiepi joined
[14:41] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kaiepi

[14:51] *** vike joined
[14:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v vike

[15:20] *** buggable joined
[15:20] *** ChanServ sets mode: +v buggable

[15:20] *** itaipu joined
[15:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v buggable

[15:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v itaipu

[15:29] *** jmerelo joined
[15:30] <Geth> Â¦ doc: thebooort++ created pull request #2365: Improve the math page with ODE's integrators #2353

[15:30] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2365

[15:30] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jmerelo

[15:32] *** fake_space_whale joined
[15:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fake_space_whale

[15:38] *** araraloren left
[15:42] *** Celelibi left
[15:46] *** Celelibi joined
[15:47] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Celelibi

[15:51] *** lizmat joined
[15:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[15:59] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: 10 commits pushed by thebooort++, (Juan JuliÃ¡n Merelo GuervÃ³s)++

[15:59] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/compare/f14525ade53c...2edd1d89613a

[16:07] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 603ff5ca43 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/math.pod6

[16:07] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Fixes formatting errors

[16:07] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/603ff5ca43

[16:07] <Geth> Â¦ doc: 90ce9a391d | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/math.pod6

[16:07] <Geth> Â¦ doc: Some fixes to pass tests

[16:07] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/math

[16:07] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/90ce9a391d

[16:15] <jmerelo> Well...

[16:15] <yoleaux> 13:23Z <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: I'll take a little break and then will write a page for results

[16:15] <jmerelo> .tell AlexDaniel thanks!

[16:15] <yoleaux> jmerelo: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[16:17] <shmup> exporting a class, or rather making a class available to other modules..  i'm not grokin it yet

[16:18] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: has you seen that Red converts â€˜-â€˜ on modelâ€™s name to â€˜_â€™ on tableâ€™s name?

[16:19] <shmup> nvm, i solved it

[16:19] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: but only if you set the name, right?

[16:19] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: I remember I did something like model Commit-whatever (because commit was reserved) and it bailed out.

[16:20] <SmokeMachine> Shouldnâ€™t...

[16:24] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: https://github.com/FCO/Red/blob/master/lib/MetamodelX/Red/Model.pm6#L34

[16:25] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: that should do it, right...

[16:25] <jmerelo> Let me check anyway

[16:26] <SmokeMachine> And Iâ€™m sorry, Iâ€™m not with my computer yet...

[16:27] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: no problem

[16:33] *** pecastro joined
[16:34] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pecastro

[16:37] *** kurahaupo left
[16:37] *** kurahaupo joined
[16:38] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[16:44] *** nige joined
[16:44] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v nige

[16:48] *** jmerelo left
[16:59] <jdv79_> i dont get the name thing.  its still a perl.  as soon as someone see sigils theyll know.  why try to obfu it...

[17:00] <timotimo> could also be basic

[17:00] <timotimo> or php

[17:02] <jdv79_> seems futile.  everything has perl in it.  modules.perl6, the irc chan names, the subreddit, etc...

[17:02] <jdv79_> like i said.  i dont get it;)

[17:09] <AlexDaniel> jdv79_: it depends, some people indeed see no problem with it. However, have you tried talking to somebody about perlÂ 6?

[17:09] <AlexDaniel> was there any confusion?

[17:10] <jdv79_> no

[17:10] <jdv79_> its also in the code, the lang braid, tge gh artifacts, etc.

[17:10] <AlexDaniel> there was no confusion or you don't talk about perlÂ 6?

[17:11] <jdv79_> i talk of perl6 all the time.  no confusion.

[17:11] <AlexDaniel> so let me get this straight

[17:11] <jdv79_> cause at the outset i say perl as you know it is p5.  im talking about p6.

[17:12] <jdv79_> any confusion is handled up front

[17:14] * AlexDaniel shrugs

[17:14] <AlexDaniel> that doesn't work for me

[17:14] <AlexDaniel> because in the end I'm the â€œperl guyâ€ and stuff like that

[17:15] <lizmat> why can't you be the "rakudo" guy ?

[17:15] <jdv79_> how would you explain to someone the compiler calks this lang in the braid Perl6 but you call it foobar?

[17:15] <AlexDaniel> yes I'll take any alias once it is there

[17:16] <lizmat> AlexDaniel: why couldn't you be the "rakudo" guy *now* ?

[17:16] <AlexDaniel> because rakudo is a compiler, not the language

[17:17] <lizmat> so?

[17:18] <AlexDaniel> well, you see, I can play all kinds of games in the attempt to work around the confusion

[17:18] <AlexDaniel> but clarity is one of my goals when I speak

[17:18] <AlexDaniel> if I'm talking about the language, I want to call the language by its name

[17:19] <AlexDaniel> substituting it with the name of the compilerâ€¦ is just weird

[17:19] <lizmat> is it?  I know 

[17:19] <AlexDaniel> so the person will go search for language rakudo and there's no language rakudo, it's perlÂ 6

[17:19] <AlexDaniel> ah-ha, perl! OK now it's clear. Hehe

[17:19] <lizmat> plenty of people in the car business that are "ford" or "citroÃ«n" or "peugeot" or "fiat" people

[17:20] <lizmat> they're all car mechanics

[17:20] <lizmat> but they identify with the brand they know best

[17:21] <lizmat> and I do think you can apply such an analogy to Perl 6 / Rakudo / Fanlang / Niecza

[17:21] <AlexDaniel> ehhhâ€¦ I don't know, maybe you're right

[17:22] <lizmat> "rakudo" 4 / 5 hits mention Perl 6 for me on google

[17:22] <lizmat> actually 5/5

[17:22] <lizmat> at DDG its 4/5

[17:23] <AlexDaniel> well if on November 1st I'm told that my favorite programming language is rakudo, I'm fine with that. I'll use it

[17:23] <lizmat> I'm telling you would be fine to use that now already  :-)

[17:24] <lizmat> Google / DDG will back you up that you're not fantasising  

[17:24] <AlexDaniel> I don't like muddying the distinction between the language and the compiler, not until Nov 1st at leastâ€¦

[17:25] *** lizmat left
[17:25] *** lizmat joined
[17:25] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[17:26] <nige> moritz - I've added 'albus' to the list of collected sub-brands - http://nigelhamilton.com/perl-branding-proposal.html

[17:26] <nige> are you OK with that?

[17:34] <timotimo> well, it wasn't his, right?

[17:34] *** ugexe joined
[17:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ugexe

[17:36] <El_Che> I get AlexDaniel's point about talking with other people. I have exactly the same experience.

[17:37] <El_Che> (About the rakudo name, I love it and I don't care about the lang/compiler collision if it means we get a good name)

[17:39] <El_Che> I am introducing perl6 in production in small CI/containers related tasks, but I refer the code as Rakudo and not Perl 6. The devops code is mostly Go, and the Perl 5 code some teams use is very old school Perl 5.

[17:39] <ugexe> I'm a software engineer. I've work as one for many years. I've work with many other software engineers. I've always been the Perl6 guy at the last 4 places I've worked ( before 6.c ). There has never in my professional career been any confusion between Perl and Perl6 with any of my colleagues. This has involved me teaching colleagues, invitings others such as jnthn to talk with colleagues, raising money from

[17:39] <yoleaux> 3 Dec 2017 07:47Z <araraloren> ugexe: I setup a new linux(fedora 25), after install rakudo-pkg. It failed when I run `install-zef-as-user.p6` ^^

[17:39] <yoleaux> 3 Dec 2017 07:47Z <araraloren> ugexe: sorry, fedora 26

[17:39] <ugexe> colleagues to go towards Perl6 advancements ( Sync sockets, atomic operations, Cro OpenAPI tooling ). 

[17:39] <yoleaux> 4 Jan 2018 16:17Z <tyil> ugexe: Do you want me to close the ticket I created, as its a dupe of #157

[17:39] <yoleaux> 20 Jul 2018 16:10Z <stmuk> ugexe: I don't seem to be able to install zef on windows

[17:39] <ugexe> The Perl name has *never* been a deteriment to any of these accomplishments, and if anything contributed towards these things happening at all. I think the seconds long snippet of larry mentioning the possiblity of an alias have been overblown. Why aren't alias backers out there testing their theory and emulating the Damian talk and making up a name and mentioning it at the end? But I'm not a marketer, i'm a

[17:39] <ugexe> software engineer, so maybe it doesn't matter what I think. Maybe making the language easier for marketers to market is worth looking like amateur hour.

[17:41] <timotimo> ugexe: sorry for being so cold on your speed improvements pullrequest for JSON::Fast; i'm hoping to give it another look-over soon, though i'm still not quite sure if i want parallelization to take place

[17:41] <El_Che> .tell araraloren ping me about the rakudo-pkg problem so we can have a look. Feel free to raise an issue in github

[17:41] <yoleaux> El_Che: I'll pass your message to araraloren.

[17:42] <ugexe> timotimo: i have no speed improvement PR. it was something about not turning Version.new(...) into (0,0) or something

[17:42] <ugexe> the PR itself is probably no good, but the problem behind it is probably worth thinking on

[17:43] <El_Che> ugexe: it's interesting to see how your experience differs

[17:43] <shmup> am i severely misundstanding looping over the elements of an array: http://ix.io/1oB4/perl6

[17:46] <shmup> god i hate the guy saying that instagram killed photography

[17:46] <shmup> mistell :)

[17:46] <AlexDaniel> shmup: it probably needs to be @$things or something like that

[17:47] <tobs> m: my $array = [1..4]; for $array -> $elt { say $elt }

[17:47] <camelia> rakudo-moar 8bb34ff07: OUTPUT: Â«[1 2 3 4]â¤Â»

[17:47] <tobs> m: my @array = [1..4]; for @array -> $elt { say $elt }

[17:47] <camelia> rakudo-moar 8bb34ff07: OUTPUT: Â«1â¤2â¤3â¤4â¤Â»

[17:47] <AlexDaniel> â†‘ that

[17:47] <tobs> m: my $array = [1..4]; for @$array -> $elt { say $elt }  # shmup: or what AlexDaniel said

[17:47] <camelia> rakudo-moar 8bb34ff07: OUTPUT: Â«1â¤2â¤3â¤4â¤Â»

[17:47] *** Bucciarati left
[17:47] *** Bucciarati joined
[17:48] <tobs> shmup: a scalar $array is a single thing, but it can often be interpreted as a single-element list, which is what happens in the first snippet under `for`.

[17:48] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Bucciarati

[17:50] <lizmat> .tell Zoffix an elaboration about my stance: https://www.reddit.com/r/perl6/comments/9m2k6l/a_request_to_larry_wall_to_create_a_language_name/e7cdgih/

[17:50] <yoleaux> lizmat: I'll pass your message to Zoffix.

[17:50] <El_Che> lizmat: oh, first point is how civil wars start :)

[17:51] <lizmat> it is how it is

[17:52] <shmup> ah hah AlexDaniel and tobs

[17:55] *** sno left
[17:57] *** sno joined
[17:57] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v sno

[18:01] <shmup> what ya think about http://ix.io/1oB6

[18:01] <shmup> what ya think about http://ix.io/1oB6/perl6

[18:02] <shmup> my brain can do this prob, let me Think

[18:03] *** MasterDuke joined
[18:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[18:03] *** MasterDuke left
[18:03] *** MasterDuke joined
[18:03] *** herbert.freenode.net sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[18:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[18:08] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: â†‘ maybe you can answer, because I'm always confused by this also :)

[18:10] <AlexDaniel> shmup: but I think it can be something like @(get-json('/home/jared/src/community/events.json')<docs><docs>) in case of @b

[18:12] <shmup> yeah ok I have it now, hm, I'll have to figure out my misunderstanding more

[18:12] <shmup> but that does now map over the result correctly, thanks AlexDaniel 

[18:16] *** davidp joined
[18:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v davidp

[18:17] <davidp> anybody using ncurses ??

[18:21] <tobs> davidp: not yet, but I'd like to soon, fwiw.

[18:22] <davidp> there is a module, iam new to perl 6, how to know if it is safe for use please ?

[18:22] <tobs> I have to say Curses::UI:from<Perl5> looks more convenient than what is in the p6 ecosystem. I haven't tried it out yet, though.

[18:23] <CIAvash> shmup: It means the json value is an item so you need to decontainerize it. In this case you can also use the list method on it. https://docs.perl6.org/routine/%3C%3E

[18:24] <tobs> davidp: hmm, "safe to use", I don't know. If you're not worried that it deletes all your files when you touch it or something like that, the modules has an example directory.

[18:24] <tobs> You can check that out, run some of the examples and see if it fits.

[18:25] <davidp> thanks i know that lib

[18:25] <shmup> love it, cool/thanks CIAvash 

[18:32] <timotimo> yeah, JSON::Fast is a bit too container-happy

[18:32] <timotimo> i want to put out a new version in the future that breaks compatibility by not putting *everything* in containers

[18:32] <shmup> lol

[18:32] <shmup> mostly I am just brand spanking new to perl6, and not that it's too important at all, only used perl5 for irssi related things

[18:33] <shmup> i have a tight feedback loop but i'm relying on it too much instead of just reading more/being patient

[18:40] *** kurahaupo left
[18:41] *** kurahaupo joined
[18:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[18:53] *** dwarring joined
[18:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v dwarring

[18:55] <lizmat> weekly: https://twitter.com/nxadm/status/1049003572694831105

[18:55] <notable6> lizmat, Noted!

[19:03] <rindolf> hi all

[19:08] *** kensanata left
[19:08] *** kurahaupo left
[19:09] *** kurahaupo joined
[19:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[19:15] *** domidumont left
[19:16] *** molaf left
[19:18] *** kurahaupo left
[19:18] *** kurahaupo joined
[19:18] *** kurahaupo left
[19:19] *** kurahaupo joined
[19:19] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[19:24] *** SqrtNegInf_ joined
[19:25] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v SqrtNegInf_

[19:35] <lizmat> weekly: http://pessim50.ucoz.ru/index/perl6_jazyk_programmirovanija_rukovodstvo/0-26

[19:35] <notable6> lizmat, Noted!

[19:36] <lizmat> AlexDaniel Zoffix is that ^^ newsworthy or not?

[19:40] *** MasterDuke left
[19:47] *** SqrtNegInf_ left
[19:47] *** zxcvz left
[19:49] <moritz> looks like an 80 page perl 6 tutorial to me

[19:51] <lizmat> yeah, that as well to me...  except apart from the Perl 6 expressions, I don't get it  :-)

[19:54] <jnthn> Yes, looks like a Perl 6 introduction tutorial :)

[19:54] *** AlexDaniel left
[19:54] *** AlexDaniel joined
[19:55] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[19:59] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: where did you find that? I can't figure out who is the author

[19:59] <lizmat> https://twitter.com/VictorBorisov3/status/1049017050683920387

[20:00] <CIAvash> m: dd Hash[Int].new('a', 'b')

[20:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar 8bb34ff07: OUTPUT: Â«Hash[Int] element = (my Int % = :a("b"))â¤Â»

[20:00] <CIAvash> What does that mean?

[20:01] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: yes definitely notable

[20:01] <lizmat> hmmm

[20:01] <lizmat> CIAvash: that looks like a bug

[20:01] <lizmat> :a<b> should not be allowed

[20:02] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: it's a full-blown introduction to perlÂ 6, written in proper Russian. I wonder what their inspiration was (were they looking at docs.perl6.org or something else?), but so far it looks originalâ€¦ which makes me wonder why didn't they publish it as a book or something like that

[20:02] <lizmat> m: my Int %h = "a", "b"  # it should give this

[20:02] <camelia> rakudo-moar 8bb34ff07: OUTPUT: Â«Type check failed in assignment to %h; expected Int but got Str ("b")â¤  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1â¤â¤Â»

[20:03] * lizmat likes Perl 6 stuff coming from unexpected corners of the world!

[20:03] <CIAvash> Yeah, I was expecting that too

[20:03] <lizmat> CIAvash: could you please create an issue for that ?

[20:05] <AlexDaniel> I'd love to provide feedback for that, though

[20:05] <AlexDaniel> for example they recommend .pl extension, which we nowadays avoid

[20:05] <CIAvash> There are other issues I haven't created yet as well! Maybe tomorrow

[20:06] <AlexDaniel> also nowhere in the file it talks about `spurt` or `slurp` and instead recommends `open`

[20:09] <AlexDaniel> it's amazing, really. 82 pages of effort and no name of the author in the document

[20:10] *** Zoffix joined
[20:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[20:10] <Zoffix> lizmat: I find it ironic that the first sentence of that tutorial talks about the bad name :)

[20:10] <yoleaux> 17:50Z <lizmat> Zoffix: an elaboration about my stance: https://www.reddit.com/r/perl6/comments/9m2k6l/a_request_to_larry_wall_to_create_a_language_name/e7cdgih/

[20:10] <AlexDaniel> hehe yeah

[20:11] *** random_yanek joined
[20:11] <Zoffix> lizmat: ah, ok, now I remember. Thanks

[20:12] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v random_yanek

[20:13] <AlexDaniel> lizmat: oh ok, that tweet is from the author of that website

[20:16] *** gfldex_ is now known as gfldex

[20:16] *** gfldex left
[20:16] *** gfldex joined
[20:17] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v gfldex

[20:21] *** Sauvin left
[20:21] *** sauvin_ joined
[20:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v sauvin_

[20:22] *** sauvin_ is now known as Sauvin

[20:31] <mniip> AlexDaniel, that document looks like something outta msword

[20:32] <AlexDaniel> mniip: it was done in libreoffice, .odt file is also provided

[20:33] <mniip> I see. Still questionable choice for a 80 page book

[20:35] <mniip> "Ğ½ĞµĞ¸Ğ·Ğ¼ĞµĞ½ÑĞµĞ¼Ğ¾ÑÑ‚ÑŒ" is written with no space :/

[20:39] <mniip> lmao he spelled haskell "Hascell"

[20:40] *** SqrtNegInf_ joined
[20:40] <Zoffix> Who cares? Man, we find the first tutorial who wasn't made by the regulars in this channel and you immediatelly proceed to rip it a new asshole because the author missed a space in "Ğ½ĞµĞ¸Ğ·Ğ¼ĞµĞ½ÑĞµĞ¼Ğ¾ÑÑ‚ÑŒ" (which I'm pretty sure is correct actually)?

[20:41] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v SqrtNegInf_

[20:41] <Zoffix> It seems the default mode people operate in these days is to shit on anything they can.

[20:41] <AlexDaniel> Zoffix: fwiw it's other way around, it's written with space in the book (sometimes)

[20:41] <AlexDaniel> but yeah I couldn't care less about formatting and grammar

[20:42] <AlexDaniel> the guide is very clear and nice

[20:42] <timotimo> mniip doesn't seem like a regular to me?

[20:43] <timotimo> have i seen you before?

[20:43] <mniip> Zoffix, I think you're overexaggerating the intenstity of me "shittin on anything I can"

[20:43] *** SqrtNegInf_ left
[20:43] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: their point is that the book was written but somebody else

[20:44] <timotimo> oh, i got that

[20:44] <AlexDaniel> or guide, whatever you call that

[20:44] <mniip> I did not say it's garbage, just pointed out some obvious issues with it

[20:44] <AlexDaniel> btw, can we link it from somewhere?

[20:44] <timotimo> i just meant it doesn't seem to be an example of "what #perl6 people usually do"

[20:44] <AlexDaniel> like maybe https://perl6.org/resources/ ?

[20:45] <AlexDaniel> â€œPerl 6 from Other Languagesâ€â€¦ Haskell, Python, Ruby, Russian :)

[20:49] <mniip> timotimo, I've been idling around for a while, if that counts

[20:50] *** Zoffix left
[20:50] <timotimo> to me "lmao he spelled â€¦" sounded a little mean towards the author; i would have probably said something like "lmao, 'hascell' is a fun way to spell haskell" instead

[20:51] *** [particle] joined
[20:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v [particle]

[20:52] *** [particle] left
[20:52] *** [particle] joined
[20:52] <mniip> understandable

[20:53] *** [particle]1 left
[20:53] <mniip> really did not intend to hurt anyone's feelings, sorry if I did

[20:53] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v [particle]

[20:53] <timotimo> though zof also overreacted i feel like

[20:53] *** wbiker left
[20:55] <AlexDaniel> Zoffix: by the way, I remember there was someone asking for a review of their perlÂ 6 tutorial in Russian, or something like that. Was it the same author?

[20:56] * mniip . o O ( I'm no regular, I'm literally context-free )

[20:58] <timotimo> oh, good one

[21:04] *** HaraldJoerg left
[21:04] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[21:05] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v HaraldJoerg

[21:08] *** HaraldJoerg1 joined
[21:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v HaraldJoerg1

[21:09] *** HaraldJoerg left
[21:10] *** oftl joined
[21:10] *** pmurias left
[21:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v oftl

[21:12] *** pmurias joined
[21:12] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pmurias

[21:15] *** telex left
[21:19] *** AlexDaniel left
[21:19] *** robertle left
[21:19] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:20] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v AlexDaniel

[21:27] *** telex joined
[21:28] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v telex

[21:29] *** uzl joined
[21:30] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v uzl

[21:30] <uzl> Hello, #perl6!

[21:31] *** kensanata joined
[21:31] *** kensanata left
[21:32] <uzl> I'm reading https://docs.perl6.org/type/Signature and there are multiple sentences where one finds 'default default'. The sentences seem to make sense with only one 'default' so I'm wondering if it's a just a typo or some meaning behind it.

[21:34] <timotimo> default default actually makes sense in signatures

[21:34] <timotimo> if you have $foo = 5, then 5 is the default for $foo, but if you just use $foo? you'll get the default default instead

[21:35] <timotimo> though it'd surely be helpful - especially for non-native speakers - to point it out a little more clearly?

[21:36] <timotimo> the first occurence of "default default" seems to explain what that means, without explaining explicitly that a "default default" is A Thingâ„¢

[21:36] <uzl> yeah, it makes after you explained but at first sight it's like 'What?'.

[21:39] <mniip> "implicit default" perhaps

[21:39] <timotimo> i think that'd be an improvement

[21:43] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: 4 commits pushed by Coke++

[21:43] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: bcf7232a6b | fix typo in comment

[21:43] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: 02337abc8f | whitespace

[21:43] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: 8dc7704786 | skip more non-compiling code snippets

[21:43] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: 70d19dbac8 | fix typo

[21:43] <Geth> Â¦ doc/master: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/compare/90ce9a391d76...70d19dbac8b1

[21:45] <geekosaur> someone might make the same change to the haskell language report, for that matter

[21:47] <Geth> Â¦ doc: uzluisf++ created pull request #2366: Rephase sentence and fix minor typo

[21:47] <Geth> Â¦ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2366

[21:48] <mniip> geekosaur, are you talking about default default or hascell?

[21:48] <geekosaur> "default default" (look at the report's definition of the "default" declaration)

[21:50] <mniip> I don't see a "default default" in there

[21:50] <mniip> only "If no default declaration is given in a module then it assumed to be: ..."

[21:53] *** molaf joined
[21:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v molaf

[21:55] *** Khisanth left
[21:55] *** Khisanth joined
[21:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Khisanth

[22:03] *** molaf left
[22:05] *** telex left
[22:05] *** dogbert21 joined
[22:05] *** dogbert21 left
[22:05] *** dogbert2_ left
[22:08] *** pmurias left
[22:08] *** pmurias joined
[22:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pmurias

[22:12] *** pecastro left
[22:13] *** lizmat left
[22:14] *** ufobat_ left
[22:21] *** rindolf left
[22:42] *** azawawi joined
[22:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v azawawi

[22:43] <azawawi> hi

[22:44] <azawawi> ğŸ‘‹

[22:45] <azawawi> As promised earlier https://github.com/azawawi/ide-perl6 (atom lang client + perl6 lang server) ... syntax checking is online :)

[22:49] *** Bucciarati left
[22:49] *** Bucciarati joined
[22:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Bucciarati

[23:01] *** lizmat joined
[23:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[23:07] *** azawawi left
[23:10] *** itaipu left
[23:12] *** dct left
[23:12] <uzl> .tell AlexDaniel Not directly related with a Russian tutorial but I've been working in a Spanish translation of

[23:12] <yoleaux> uzl: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[23:12] <uzl> .tell AlexDaniel 'Think Perl 6' and a while back I asked for a (community?) review of the translation. Lately 

[23:12] <yoleaux> uzl: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[23:13] <uzl> .tell AlexDaniel I've been working with the index terms which I didn't take of while translating the main content.

[23:13] <yoleaux> uzl: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[23:13] <AlexDaniel> .

[23:13] <yoleaux> 23:13Z <uzl> AlexDaniel: I've been working with the index terms which I didn't take of while translating the main content.

[23:13] <AlexDaniel> I'm here! :)

[23:13] <AlexDaniel> uzl: Spanish translation! Have you talked to jmerelo?

[23:13] <uzl> Oh, didn't notice it! ;)

[23:17] <uzl> AlexDaniel: I don't think so. Well, at least not specifically about a review.

[23:18] <AlexDaniel> .tell jmerelo by any chance are you interested in this? http://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2018-10-07#l884

[23:18] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[23:19] <AlexDaniel> uzl: is it public, by the way? Your translation I mean

[23:19] <timotimo> jnthn: i'm not sure i understand "there's still lots more to be had. which is a good job, since ..."; like, the "a good job" part?

[23:20] <uzl> AlexDaniel: https://uzluisf.gitlab.io/piensaperl6/ <- It has a link to the gitlab repo.

[23:22] <AlexDaniel> awesome, in LaTeX! jmerelo is the right person :)

[23:22] <AlexDaniel> as long as they have time of course

[23:23] <uzl> That's what I realized. JJ might not have the spare time to do so.

[23:24] <uzl> But I guess there's not rush.

[23:24] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:24] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:25] <uzl> Anyway...until later.

[23:25] *** uzl left
[23:28] *** MasterDuke left
[23:28] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:28] *** herbert.freenode.net sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:28] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:29] <timotimo> .tell jnthn i'm not sure i understand "there's still lots more to be had. which is a good job, since ..."; like, the "a good job" part?

[23:29] <yoleaux> timotimo: I'll pass your message to jnthn.

[23:30] <k-man> morning

[23:30] <timotimo> greetings k-man 

[23:30] <k-man> p14 of learning perl6 says i can get info on perl6 language variables by doing "p6doc language/variables"

[23:30] <k-man> but its not found oh my system

[23:31] <k-man> ooh

[23:31] <k-man> maybe because i didn't source my .bashrc in that term

[23:31] <k-man> nope, that's not it

[23:31] <k-man> hi timotimo 

[23:34] <k-man> hmmm... p6doc should have a document about p6doc imho

[23:35] <k-man> p6doc on its own seems to work

[23:36] <timotimo> you may not yet have p6doc installed

[23:36] <k-man> i do have it, it works

[23:36] <timotimo> oh!

[23:36] <k-man> 'p6doc variables' seems to find a document

[23:37] <k-man> i think its a typo or outdated info in the book

[23:37] <timotimo> learing perl6 is really new, though

[23:37] <k-man> yeah

[23:38] <k-man> i know

[23:38] <timotimo> i haven't used the p6doc tool in a long long time

[23:38] <timotimo> all the perl6 doc stuff is on the doc.perl6.org site, too, if that helps :\

[23:41] <k-man> timotimo, yeah, i found it

[23:41] <k-man> just wanted to be sure it wasn't me doing it wrong, and more likely an error in the book

[23:41] <k-man> i sent an errata note

[23:45] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[23:45] *** itaipu joined
[23:45] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v HaraldJoerg

[23:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v itaipu

[23:46] *** HaraldJoerg1 left
[23:47] <[Coke]> k-man++

[23:48] <k-man> thanks [Coke]!

[23:49] <k-man> i found 2 errata and I'm only up to p14 :(

[23:49] <k-man> should have done this before it was printed

[23:56] <ugexe> re perl 5&6 having conferences/summits split up -- how many conferences do you attend? because i really hope that such an argument is coming from attendees. or donating for p6 developers to go to PTS

[23:58] <ugexe> or do we just expect this shit to figure itself out?

