[00:03] <thowe> so I need this patch, or is there a way to tell rakudobrew to use clang?

[00:05] <jnthn> There's probably a way to tell rakudobrew to build MoarVM master instead of the version currently suggested

[00:06] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Pod-To-Pager-0.2.0.tar.gz by TYIL http://modules.perl6.org/dist/Pod::To::Pager:cpan:TYIL

[00:06] <jnthn> The PR was merged, so that should suffice

[00:06] <tyil> on https://docs.perl6.org/language/pod#Unicode, it shows the line Perl 6 makes considerable use of the E<laquo> and E<raquo> characters.

[00:07] <tyil> these two entities dont get converted when they're passed through perl6 --doc

[00:07] <jnthn> Looks like the command may be rakudobrew moar-blead or some such

[00:07] <tyil> they should become ¬´ and ¬ª, but instead stay laquo and raquo

[00:12] <thowe> hm.  did rakudobrew build moar master and same problem.  Did I do it wrong?

[00:14] *** n1ge joined
[00:16] <MasterDuke> thowe: might want to ask Kaiepi directly. he was active pretty recently, so good chance he's around

[00:18] *** n1ge left
[00:19] *** n1ge joined
[00:26] *** zachk left
[00:28] <thowe> Kaiepi, any tips on getting running on OpenBSD 6.3?

[00:33] <Kaiepi> you'll need to build dyncall and install it manually

[00:34] <Kaiepi> install libuv from ports (not pkg, that version's too old)

[00:34] <Kaiepi> then you can build rakudo with --moar-option=--has-dyncall --moar-option=--has-libuv --moar-option=--cc=clang

[00:34] <thowe> if the pkg is too old is the port in the 6.3 branch?

[00:34] <Kaiepi> yeah

[00:35] <Kaiepi> also wherever you're running perl6, the partition its mounted on needs to have wxallowed set in /etc/fstab

[00:41] <thowe> I'll give all that a try.

[00:42] <thowe> need a ports tree I guess ;P

[00:43] *** raschipi left
[00:48] *** e5r joined
[00:48] *** n1ge left
[00:51] *** markoong left
[00:52] *** markoong joined
[00:52] *** markoong left
[00:53] *** markong joined
[00:53] *** markong left
[00:53] *** margeas joined
[00:55] *** Xliff joined
[00:57] <Xliff> m: my token word { \w+ }; (".field" ~~ /<word> ** 1..3 % '.'/).gist.say

[00:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar c441d8d8b: OUTPUT: ¬´ÔΩ¢fieldÔΩ£‚ê§ word => ÔΩ¢fieldÔΩ£‚ê§¬ª

[00:59] *** margeas left
[01:04] *** benjikun joined
[01:32] *** reportable6 left
[01:32] *** reportable6 joined
[01:40] *** cowens left
[02:00] *** aindilis left
[02:02] *** aindilis joined
[02:05] *** perlpilot left
[02:17] *** araraloren joined
[02:28] *** itaylor57 joined
[02:33] *** perlpilot joined
[02:33] *** kurahaupo joined
[02:34] *** kurahaupo left
[02:34] *** kurahaupo_ joined
[02:51] *** araraloren_ joined
[02:54] *** araraloren left
[03:27] *** phdphil left
[03:28] *** beersingh joined
[04:15] *** Xliff left
[04:25] *** e5r left
[04:29] *** kaare_ joined
[04:53] *** timotimo left
[04:55] <benjikun> How do I use what's inside of a variable as the key when selecting something from a hash

[04:55] <benjikun> e.g. my line is `$t6.process('topic', :topic<$topic_title>);`

[04:55] <benjikun> where I want what's inside $topic_title to be used as the name of the key

[04:56] <benjikun> I can't tell if I'm extremely dumb and missing something simple

[04:56] <geekosaur> :topic($topic_title)

[04:57] <geekosaur> (note parens instead of angle brackets)

[04:58] <benjikun> weird

[04:58] <benjikun> didn't know you could use parenthesis there

[04:59] <geekosaur> you can think of it as, whenever you have something surrounded by some kind of brackets attached to something else ("postcircumfix" is what perl 6 calls it), you can use <> in place of those brackets if you want to use a literal string there

[05:00] <geekosaur> so %foo{'bar'} can be written %foo<bar>, :foo('bar') can be written :foo<bar>, etc.

[05:01] <benjikun> so there is no practical difference between %foo{'bar'} and %foo('bar')

[05:01] <geekosaur> uh? %foo(bar) isn't valid. hashes use {} for associative indexing, as arrays use [] for positional indexing

[05:02] <geekosaur> colonpairs are a different thing; somewhat closely related to Hashes because they're effectively containers for Pairs (colonpairs being one of several syntaxes for Pairs), but not the same thing

[05:02] <geekosaur> m: :foo(1).WHAT

[05:02] <camelia> rakudo-moar c441d8d8b: ( no output )

[05:02] <geekosaur> er

[05:02] <geekosaur> m: :foo(1).WHAT.say

[05:02] <camelia> rakudo-moar c441d8d8b: OUTPUT: ¬´(Pair)‚ê§¬ª

[05:03] <geekosaur> m: (foo => 1).WHAT.say

[05:03] <camelia> rakudo-moar c441d8d8b: OUTPUT: ¬´(Pair)‚ê§¬ª

[05:05] <benjikun> I see

[05:05] <benjikun> thanks for the help

[05:08] *** wamba joined
[05:14] *** kurahaupo joined
[05:18] *** kurahaupo_ left
[05:25] *** perlpilot left
[05:29] *** hami joined
[05:32] <thowe> Kaiepi, So I installed libdyn.  Installed libuv port.  Ran rakudo with the options you gave me, and I get the exact same error...

[05:36] *** lizmat joined
[05:43] <thowe> I might not be calling config opt right

[05:47] <thowe> hm, doesn't seem to like that I am using clang(?)  I'm giving up for now

[05:49] <benjikun> Does supernovus still come on here?

[05:59] <lizmat> .seen supernovus

[05:59] <yoleaux> I saw supernovus 22 Apr 2016 23:27Z in #perl6: <supernovus> Well, I'm going to have to run. Have a great day/night everyone. I hope to fix up some of my long neglected libraries at some point when I'm not completely overloaded with work! :-)

[06:09] <Kaiepi> what error do you get thowe?

[06:10] <benjikun> oof

[06:10] <benjikun> 2016

[06:13] *** kurahaupo left
[06:16] *** kurahaupo joined
[06:28] *** rindolf joined
[06:45] *** ufobat_ joined
[06:49] *** lizmat left
[06:55] *** darutoko joined
[06:55] *** jmerelo joined
[06:59] *** damnlie left
[07:00] *** damnlie joined
[07:10] *** domidumont joined
[07:17] *** domidumont left
[07:17] *** domidumont joined
[07:26] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[07:28] <jmerelo> Just created the `zef` tag in StackOverflow https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/zef 

[07:29] <jmerelo> Tag wiki page will be online soon, and probably very imperfect. Please help improve it.

[07:29] <jmerelo> You can also back-tag some Perl6 questions with zef.

[07:40] <jmerelo> This question is apparently the first of its kind https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51005124/swap-first-and-last-columns-in-matrix "I can do this pretty nicely in Perl6, how can I do it in some other language"

[07:40] <jmerelo> As in "some other language for native Perl6 speakers". I love that.

[07:42] *** molaf joined
[07:56] <tyil> jmerelo: thanks

[07:56] <tyil> I wanted to tag my question with zef, but havent got enough rep to create tags

[08:00] *** lizmat joined
[08:01] <jmerelo> tyil: my pleasure. I think you get it with 1500. You'll get them in due time.

[08:02] <tyil> yeah

[08:02] <tyil> I'm not too worried

[08:02] *** beersingh left
[08:02] <tyil> I've been asking some questions lately regarding p6man, which I want to make use of in my (proposed) book

[08:03] <tyil> I wonder if I can alter my TPF grant proposal to include more time, many have told me 4 months won't cut it

[08:03] <jmerelo> tyil: yep. Books always take longer than one initially intended.

[08:04] <tyil> I've also been considering to add the use of gitlab or github to the book, as one commenter asked about

[08:04] <tyil> been testing out gitlab-ci with p6man

[08:04] <tyil> and boy is it awesome compared to travis

[08:04] <jmerelo> tyil: that was my approach in my book: include everything you need to start to program: ssh, some command-line utilities...

[08:05] <jmerelo> tyil: but then, I don't think if that's right for a TPF grant. 

[08:05] <jmerelo> tyil: I haven't tried gitlab-ci, but I'm happy with Travis...

[08:05] <tyil> you dont need to use git or a git service to start, but they're pretty neat to use

[08:05] <tyil> with gitlab-ci you can specify which docker image to use, such as rakudo-star

[08:06] <tyil> suddenly you have an image that contains all the tools you need without manual setup

[08:06] <jmerelo> tyil: but that's what we do in perl6/doc. There's a docker image, perl6-doccer, which we use to test. 

[08:06] <tyil> for an end-user, that sounds incredibly useful compared to having to manually set up Perl 6 in each travis build

[08:06] * jmerelo remembers I have to update the image to the latest perl6

[08:07] <jmerelo> tyil: you don't need to do that, actually. I mean, most people do since that's the "official" Travis image. I tried to change it, but no joy.

[08:07] <jmerelo> Either El_Che's packages or docker images would be much better for that...

[08:07] <tyil> the official image isnt great for end users, building it takes about 7 minutes

[08:08] <tyil> thats a long time to wait for a project whose tests run in a couple seconds

[08:08] <tyil> also, perl6/doc uses https://github.com/perl6/doc/blob/master/util/travis-test.sh to get a custom docker image

[08:08] <jmerelo> That's why in perl6/doc we don't use (since February). We have 3 CIs set up, shippable uses rakudo packages, the two Travis use either a binary or perl6-doccer

[08:08] <tyil> not friendly at all for end users

[08:09] <jmerelo> tyil: That's only becasuse it's got two different CIs set up. 

[08:09] <tyil> https://gitlab.com/tyil/perl6-pod-to-pager/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml

[08:09] <tyil> I can add a different CI by just adding another key in the yaml file

[08:09] <jmerelo> tyil: this one is friendly https://hub.docker.com/r/jjmerelo/test-perl6/

[08:09] <tyil> the artifacts is completely optional, and just builds a zip with the sources

[08:10] <tyil> the docker containers are friendly, but travis is not friendly in using a different docker image

[08:10] <tyil> it requires menial manual labour to divert from their default images

[08:10] <jmerelo> tyil: but you are right, gitlab approach is a bit simpler than Travis, since you can specify the image directly. In Travis you have to issue a few more commands.

[08:11] <jmerelo> tyil: can you use gitlab-ci from GitHub?

[08:11] <tyil> I'll probably update assixt some time in the future to add a .gitlab-ci.yaml 

[08:11] <tyil> I'm not sure if that's easily done

[08:12] <tyil> I've dropped Github from personal use for future projects

[08:12] <tyil> gitlab has been objectively superiour in almost every aspect to me

[08:13] <tyil> and its not owned by a company known for shitting on their users in every possible position (though this was less of an issue when I decided to go gitlab)

[08:13] <jmerelo> tyil: I still have to take the step. Don't think it will happen any time soon. I have more than 500 repos in GitHub

[08:14] <tyil> I dont remove the github stuff because they're established urls

[08:14] <tyil> but my new projects go on gitlab, and bigger projects that I still work on will probably move there for new work

[08:15] <tyil> it needs better perl 6/pod support though, that's one of the things I lack on gitlab

[08:16] <tyil> also, thanks for your answers on SO (and everyone else going around answering), I can continue on my projects again

[08:16] <jmerelo> tyil: it's not in GitHub for the time being either...

[08:17] <tyil> what is?

[08:17] <jmerelo> tyil: thanks for asking :-) I mean, it helps the community to have public question and answers

[08:17] <tyil> I'll probably be asking many more questions over the course of (at least 4 months)

[08:17] <jmerelo> tyil: the Pod support. Your PR was reverted... 

[08:17] <tyil> ah

[08:17] <jmerelo> tyil: so you got the grant. Congratulations.

[08:17] <tyil> not that I know yet

[08:18] <jmerelo> tyil: then, good luck :-)

[08:18] <tyil> I saw something about the Pod PR, it needing another project's support as well

[08:18] <tyil> for which we already had a PR open as well

[08:18] <tyil> which was also being completely ignored

[08:18] <jmerelo> tyil: right. The linguist one. It's there, sitting pretty.

[08:18] <jmerelo> tyil: sorry, the markdown one.

[08:19] <tyil> I should poke [Coke] about the grant to see if he can approve some of the comments on the TPF blog (and whether a proposal may be updated once posted)

[08:19] <tyil> which I guess has been done right about now :p

[08:20] <jmerelo> tyil: I don't think so. But once it's approved you can change stuff if your manager approves.

[08:20] <tyil> ah

[08:20] <tyil> that sounds alright to me

[08:20] <jmerelo> tyil: I don't know about duration. That's pretty much baked in. 

[08:21] <jmerelo> tyil: but once you get, it's probably a matter of talking to your manager. As long as you don't request more money, I can probably be done.

[08:22] <jmerelo> tyil: BTW, you're going to Arnhem, right? I guess we'll meet there.

[08:22] <tyil> yes I do

[08:22] <tyil> samcv will be coming along as well

[08:22] <jmerelo> tyil: that's great :-)

[08:23] <tyil> I even have a talk scheduled at the NLPW

[08:23] <jmerelo> tyil: and it's Squashaton weekend, so I'll tie you all to a laptop and will assign perl6/doc issues to solve :-)

[08:23] <tyil> but I have modules to make!

[08:24] <jmerelo> tyil: not that weekend! It's SQUASHathon weekend!

[08:24] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[08:24] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 12 days and ‚âà1 hour (2018-07-07 UTC-12‚åÅUTC+14). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[08:27] *** Kaiepi left
[08:30] *** Kaiepi joined
[08:44] *** hami left
[09:16] *** sno left
[09:18] *** sno joined
[09:22] *** lizmat left
[09:24] <tyil> .tell jnthn would you have time to talk to me about something around 8PM paris time today?

[09:24] <yoleaux> tyil: I'll pass your message to jnthn.

[09:28] *** pmurias joined
[09:28] *** pmurias left
[09:31] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[09:32] <jmerelo> Calling a vote on the style of hashes definition in the documentation: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2117#issuecomment-399742781

[09:37] *** robertle left
[09:41] *** xinming joined
[09:41] <benjikun> Why do some Perl6 modules get put into the Perl6 organization on GitHub?

[09:41] <benjikun> are there any requirements for those modules or are they just put there in the first place

[09:45] *** domidumont left
[09:50] *** ExtraCrispy left
[09:51] *** pmurias joined
[09:53] <jmerelo> benjikun: when they are "abandoned" by their authors or simply started from the Perl 6 organization

[09:53] <jmerelo> benjikun: also, when authors become part of the Perl organization they move it there. They are sometimes modules included in the Rakudo Star release, but not always. 

[09:54] <jmerelo> benjikun: baseline is, let's keep a close eye on them, since they are important. 

[09:54] <benjikun> jmerelo: Ah, thanks for the response.

[09:54] <jmerelo> benjikun: sure :-) My pleasure

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 8 commits pushed by (JJ Merelo)++

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 6659b44f20 | brackets ‚Üí parentheses and reflow

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 235d4792d8 | brackets ‚Üí curly braces, add example refs #2114

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 91aaa19339 | brackets ‚Üí braces, reflow refs #2114

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: d1c2a1fee3 | Reflow while checking brackets refs #2114

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: a7f7c3907f | Adds braces to brackets for common form refs #2114

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 8c9e45d128 | brackets ‚Üí braces, reflow refs #2114

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 4e3b3d8040 | brackets get square, refs #2114

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: d6f2079247 | Unless more are found, all braces have been fixed

[10:03] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/compare/695771dfa5ab...d6f20792470e

[10:06] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[10:18] *** kurahaupo left
[10:20] <El_Che> m

[10:20] <jmerelo> El_Che: hi!

[10:43] * jmerelo goes AFK and CTS (close-to-swimmingpool)

[10:43] *** jmerelo left
[10:49] <benjikun> .seen zoffix

[10:49] <yoleaux> I saw Zoffix 23 Jun 2018 16:02Z in #perl6: <Zoffix> geekosaur: ToddAndMargo, `'abcdef'.match(/../, :g)` is better written (and is slightly more performant) as `'abcdef'.comb: 2`

[10:52] *** espadrine left
[11:34] *** margeas joined
[11:44] *** parv joined
[11:47] <parv> is it possible to move rakudo install directory to another (e.g mv ~/x ~/y/x # & expect perl6 to work)

[11:47] <parv> ?

[11:48] <MasterDuke> parv: not now. but it wouldn't be impossible to implement, and some people have done a little bit of work toward it

[11:49] <parv> ok. thanks, MasterDuke.

[11:50] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: there's also this organization: https://github.com/perl6-community-modules

[11:50] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: and I see that some modules are in perl6-community-modules/ and others are in perl6/

[11:53] <AlexDaniel> that's a good question actually‚Ä¶ should we move some stuff to perl6-community-modules ?

[11:56] <AlexDaniel> Pod-To-HTML p6-sake DBIish perl6-lwp-simple perl6-pod-to-bigpage gtk-simple perl6-http-server-threaded Perl6-MIME-Base64 perl6-http-server-async form perl6-http-server WebService-HazIP

[11:56] <AlexDaniel> just 12 of them to move, if we decide to

[11:56] <parv> zef's README says to install it, do "cd zef && perl6 -I. bin/zef install .". Is the second . where zef command & its lib are installed? How do I specify an alternative install directory?

[11:57] <AlexDaniel> parv: if I'm getting it right, it is calling zef (bin/zef) to install itself (.)

[11:59] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: I haven't seen that before, is it mentioned anywhere on perl6.org?

[12:00] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: I don't know

[12:00] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: but to clarify, I think ‚Äúabandoned‚Äù modules end up in perl6-community-modules

[12:01] <parv> hmm ... I don't see any provision (in resources/*) to install elsewhere; have to relocate the files myself.

[12:01] <benjikun> I wonder what the age distribution for users of Perl6 look like

[12:03] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: why would that matter?

[12:04] <benjikun> It just seems like an interesting survey question

[12:05] <benjikun> I (perhaps wrongfully) associate "Perl," meaning Perl5, with older programmers

[12:05] *** zakharyas joined
[12:08] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: I guess I'm the example of a younger programmer, possibly the youngest in the dev team (in my twenties)

[12:09] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: I'm younger than you

[12:10] <AlexDaniel> :)

[12:12] <benjikun> I'm attempting to visualize Perl6's community

[12:13] <benjikun> I would've expected more than 418 coming out of this GitHub search: https://github.com/search?q=repos%3A%3E1&type=Users&l=perl6

[12:13] <benjikun> Searching for users of Perl6 with greater than 1 Repos

[12:15] <AlexDaniel> it says that I have no perl6 repos :(

[12:16] <benjikun> hm

[12:16] <benjikun> Do you tag them with perl6?

[12:16] <AlexDaniel> well, it doesn't count that one as my repo: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/

[12:17] <AlexDaniel> and this one is tagged but has no code files: https://github.com/AlexDaniel/6lang-golf-cheatsheet

[12:17] <benjikun> Hmm

[12:17] <AlexDaniel> and the rest is not very public really

[12:17] <AlexDaniel> or is in perl6/ org

[12:18] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: looking at your website, I'd guess you're into computer security?

[12:22] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: I study Computer Systems Engineering

[12:23] <benjikun> ah

[12:29] *** zakharyas left
[12:30] *** kaare_ left
[12:31] *** domidumont joined
[12:32] <parv> FWIW I just saw the messsage at the end of zef install which notes that it was installed in subdir of rakudo install. works-for-me.

[12:49] *** sarna joined
[12:53] *** kurahaupo joined
[12:59] <sarna> what does a backslash do here? `method foo(\s) {...}`

[13:05] <araraloren_> sarna it's sigilless variable

[13:06] <araraloren_> m: my \s = 22; say s;

[13:06] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´22‚ê§¬ª

[13:06] <sarna> araraloren_: when should I use them?

[13:06] <El_Che> a constant?

[13:07] <sarna> oh, makes sense

[13:07] <sarna> don't you uppercase all the constants?

[13:07] <araraloren_> https://docs.perl6.org/language/variables#index-entry-%5C_%28sigilless_variables%29

[13:07] <El_Che> (see the question mark :) )

[13:07] * sarna thinks harder

[13:07] <El_Che> sarna: I don't

[13:07] <El_Che> sarna: It looks like C cargo culting

[13:07] <araraloren_> hmm, like constant

[13:08] *** timo joined
[13:08] <sarna> El_Che: :^) alright

[13:08] <sarna> I've never liked that convention anyway

[13:10] <araraloren_> If I declare constant with `constant`, I will uppercase that things

[13:10] <araraloren_> m: constant PI = 3.14; say PI;

[13:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´3.14‚ê§¬ª

[13:11] <araraloren_> but with siglless variable, it's a special kind variable, IMO

[13:12] <sarna> is `constant c = 1` any different from `my \c := 1`?

[13:13] <araraloren_> IDK

[13:13] <El_Che> they are both immutable

[13:13] <El_Che> scoping probably?

[13:13] <sarna> do constants get any special treatment? constant constants

[13:14] <sarna> ah

[13:14] <araraloren_> lifetime difference ?

[13:14] <El_Che> to be sure, do 

[13:14] <El_Che> m: constant \c = 1

[13:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: ( no output )

[13:14] <El_Che> :)

[13:14] <araraloren_> m: constant a = 20; BEGIN say a;

[13:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´20‚ê§¬ª

[13:14] <sarna> m: constant \c := 1

[13:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: ( no output )

[13:14] <sarna> just to be sure

[13:14] <sarna> :D

[13:14] <araraloren_> m: my \a = 20; BEGIN say a;

[13:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´(Mu)‚ê§¬ª

[13:14] <El_Che> m: constant \c = 1; c = 2

[13:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´Cannot modify an immutable Int (1)‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[13:14] <AlexDaniel> sigilless variables are not exactly constants

[13:15] <El_Che> it's about the container, isn't?

[13:15] <sarna> araraloren_: what's this magic BEGIN thing?

[13:15] <araraloren_> so, constant is available in BEGIN phrase

[13:15] <araraloren_> Phasers

[13:15] <araraloren_> https://docs.perl6.org/language/phasers

[13:16] <sarna> oh oki, I'll read about it 

[13:16] <araraloren_> It's some special block

[13:16] <AlexDaniel> it's somewhat similar to ‚Äúval‚Äù in scala, and those are typically not uppercased as far as I know

[13:16] <AlexDaniel> or val in Java with lombok

[13:17] <sarna> yeah, or let in Rust (without mut)

[13:17] <araraloren_> haha, but Rust can define the variable more than once

[13:17] <araraloren_> I hate this design

[13:17] <sarna> I mean, you can let twice

[13:18] <sarna> you can't `let x = 2; x = 3;`

[13:19] <araraloren_> yeah, I know

[13:19] <sarna> is it good practice to use sigilless for immutable variables? 

[13:19] <sarna> I kinda like sigils

[13:20] <El_Che> sigils put emphasis on the container, imho

[13:21] *** domidumont left
[13:24] <sarna> ohh

[13:26] <AlexDaniel> sarna: well, you decide. I don't see code like this very often, but IIRC TimToady uses (or at least used) it a lot

[13:27] <araraloren_> I am not using that often too :)

[13:27] <sarna> I'm used to following the rules, I feel lost if I have to choose '^ ^

[13:28] <araraloren_> hmm, you don't have to choose, just use what you like 

[13:29] <AlexDaniel> .oO( so what do I like? )

[13:30] <El_Che> pistacchio is a safe bet

[13:31] * AlexDaniel googles ‚ÄúPistachio nut allergy‚Äù

[13:31] <sarna> pistachios are so expensive though

[13:32] <mst> sarna: I've been enjoying doing 'my $x := 2;'

[13:33] <sarna> with sigils I know if it's a collection or a scalar

[13:33] <sarna> and that was my biggest problem with other dynamic languages

[13:33] <sarna> hmm, is it a string? a list of strings? a nested list?

[13:34] <mst> the difference between "for x in str:" and "for x in str,:" in python has always been troubling to me.

[13:34] <sarna> and then I'd get a "can't index an integer" at runtime :X

[13:34] <El_Che> on lang with strong typing it's less of a problem (or not at all)

[13:36] *** timo is now known as timotimo

[13:36] <araraloren_> but you don't know what $x is in Perl6 too. I think

[13:36] <sarna> I had the most problems with it in Clojure, which is strongly typed

[13:37] <El_Che> sarna: really? That kind of problem is catched at compile time, e.g. in go

[13:37] <sarna> (I (think [I (might (have #(gotten [lost (in [the (parens [though])])])))]))

[13:37] <sarna> El_Che: runtime for Clojure

[13:37] <pmurias> AlexDaniel: the demographics of Perl 6 programmers are sort of interesting

[13:37] <sarna> it's strongly typed, but dynamic

[13:38] <El_Che> sarna: is sounds as "it is, but not really"

[13:38] <El_Che> :)

[13:38] <sarna> El_Che: yeah :)

[13:38] <sarna> it'll complain about types, at runtime

[13:39] <sarna> JS generally won't

[13:41] *** gabiruh left
[13:42] <El_Che> pmurias: go on?

[13:42] *** kaare_ joined
[13:43] <pmurias> El_Che: I don't know what they are, I'm just interested in knowing them ;)

[13:43] <El_Che> hehe

[13:43] <El_Che> yes

[13:43] <El_Che> :)

[13:44] <pmurias> benjikun: one interesting thing to measure about the Perl 6 community is what languages are the people coming in

[13:45] <El_Che> or the pessismist view: going :)

[13:45] <El_Che> and which langs they use next to perl6

[13:46] <sarna> pmurias: is there any perl6 survey?

[13:47] <El_Che> there a a generic perl one, but it was flawed

[13:47] <AlexDaniel> 5lawed

[13:47] <benjikun> The perl one only mentions perl6 in one question sadly

[13:47] <sarna> :(

[13:47] <benjikun> pmurias: Would be nice if we could get more information on these kinds of things

[13:47] <benjikun> how about we make a Perl6 survey?

[13:48] <sarna> I'm in

[13:48] <benjikun> I could whip up a google form

[13:48] <sarna> how to be a successful language in 2018:

[13:48] <sarna> 1. have a cute mascot (go, rust)

[13:48] <sarna> 2. conduct a survey

[13:48] <sarna> we have a mascot already

[13:49] <benjikun> we're halfway there

[13:49] <sarna> I think the survey is the missing piece

[13:49] <sarna> yeah

[13:49] <El_Che> find  a niche?

[13:49] <sarna> have you seen better glue?

[13:50] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: well, go for it? Perhaps come here with a list of questions/answers for some feedback before actually setting up a survey, I'm sure there will be some nice suggestions

[13:51] <sarna> benjikun: you can check out Clojure's and Rust's surveys, they're pretty good

[13:51] <benjikun> AlexDaniel sarna: Will do

[13:51] <AlexDaniel> benjikun++

[13:55] <El_Che> AlexDaniel: where are you based, btw?

[13:57] *** sarna_ joined
[14:01] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: Estonia

[14:02] <El_Che> the North!

[14:02] <El_Che> :)

[14:03] *** lizmat joined
[14:04] *** sarna_ left
[14:04] *** sarna_ joined
[14:05] <benjikun> https://docs.google.com/forms/d/19qSBpGWWc9RNruxPWySHkmy3tppaqeqUNGfZpHhdsMs/edit?usp=sharing

[14:05] <benjikun> Here's what I have so far

[14:06] <benjikun> anyone can drop in and make any changes / add new questions

[14:06] <sarna_> benjikun: maybe favourite/least favourite perl6 features?

[14:06] <benjikun> hmm, yeah

[14:06] <benjikun> What would you put for options?

[14:07] <sarna_> I'd just let people write it themselves

[14:07] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: I'd recommend listing Spacemacs and Emacs separately

[14:07] <sarna_> and maybe "most wanted feature"

[14:07] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: because a lot of spacemacs users are using it with vim keybinging so it's not exactly Emacs

[14:07] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: will do

[14:08] <benjikun> sarna_: sounds good

[14:09] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: btw there's a list of editors and their perl6 support, maybe you'd want to add something from it: https://github.com/perl6/user-experience/issues/19

[14:10] <benjikun> ah, good idea

[14:11] <sarna_> benjikun: "if you have used zef, do you like it?"

[14:11] <sarna_> benjikun: "do you use any authoring tools (eg mi6)?"

[14:12] <sarna_> also maybe "do you use perl6 at work" but I don't think we'd get above 5% on that

[14:12] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ‚Äúhow did you install perl¬†6?‚Äù ‚Äì Distribution packages (e.g. `apt install perl6`), ‚Äì Rakudo Star, ‚Äì Monthly Rakudo release, ‚Äì rakudobrew

[14:12] <sarna_> benjikun: maybe "do you plan to try to use perl6 at work?"

[14:13] <timotimo> maybe make a distinction between "officially" and "unofficially"

[14:13] <timotimo> i.e. someone who writes ten one-liners a day to make their work more efficient would say "unofficially", but someone who develops a perl6 app/service for a client would say "officially"

[14:13] <sarna_> benjikun: "what areas do you work in?"

[14:14] <sarna_> I don't know if all answers would qualify https://blog.rust-lang.org/images/2016-06-Survey/demo_areas.png

[14:14] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: maybe something like: ‚ÄúHave you used Perl¬†6 in school or university?‚Äù ‚Äì Yes, as suggested by course materials; ‚Äì Yes, I chose to use it myself; ‚Äì I study but had no chance to use it; ‚Äì I'm not studying

[14:14] <sarna_> also, I'd include one field where people would just say what they'd like to add themselves

[14:14] <AlexDaniel> although I'd expect there are very few people who'd be able to give a useful answer to that

[14:15] <sarna_> AlexDaniel: I don't think any universities use perl6 (unless they allow any language and you just write perl6)

[14:16] <sarna_> my university will probably be like this and I'm planning on sneaking some perl6 into my projects :^)

[14:16] <AlexDaniel> sarna_: I've used it very successfully for a compilers/parsers course

[14:16] <AlexDaniel> sarna_: and a little bit of stuff for research that I did here was in perl¬†6

[14:17] <sarna_> AlexDaniel: really? whoa, I slurp my words back then

[14:17] <AlexDaniel> sarna_: well, I chose to use it myself, but it was very welcome :)

[14:18] <sarna_> AlexDaniel: ah, makes sense :)

[14:18] <AlexDaniel> also there's a chance I'd give a ‚Äúguest‚Äù lecture about perl¬†6 next year for that same course

[14:18] <sarna_> oo, good luck!

[14:19] <benjikun> sarna_: I'm not sure about what else to add to "What do you utilize Perl6 for?"

[14:19] <benjikun> it was my offshoot of your idea

[14:20] <benjikun> I have web development, general scripting, data science ...

[14:20] <sarna_> benjikun: have you seen this image I sent?

[14:20] *** hankache joined
[14:21] <benjikun> yeah, I see it

[14:21] <benjikun> some don't apply

[14:21] <sarna_> yeah, definitely

[14:21] <sarna_> I'd maybe add compilers/parsers

[14:21] <benjikun> mk

[14:21] <sarna_> text processing?

[14:22] <benjikun> some of these are subsets of others

[14:22] <benjikun> web scraping could be considered text processing, sorta

[14:22] <sarna_> yup

[14:22] <hankache> hello #perl6

[14:22] <yoleaux> 19 Jun 2018 14:11Z <lizmat> hankache: I've unslipped a c in the weekly

[14:22] <sarna_> o/

[14:22] <hankache> .tell lizmat: Thanks a lot

[14:22] <yoleaux> hankache: What kind of a name is "lizmat:"?!

[14:23] <sarna_> :D

[14:23] <hankache> hi sarna_

[14:23] <hankache> seen lizmat

[14:24] <hankache> .seen lizmat

[14:24] <yoleaux> I saw lizmat 14:23Z in #perl6-dev: <lizmat> mostly mentioned in comments

[14:24] <hankache> .tell lizmat Thanks a lot

[14:24] <yoleaux> hankache: I'll pass your message to lizmat.

[14:24] <lizmat> hankache: you're welcome

[14:24] <yoleaux> 14:24Z <hankache> lizmat: Thanks a lot

[14:27] *** sarna_ left
[14:28] *** sarna_ joined
[14:28] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: well, I just realized I can edit it myself, haha

[14:29] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: sorry for being dumb :)

[14:29] <benjikun> no problem, heh

[14:32] <benjikun> What answer choices should I put for "Where did you find out about Perl6, originally?"

[14:33] *** gabiruh joined
[14:33] <benjikun> I'm thinking blogs, hackernews, reddit, unsure

[14:37] <sarna_> this post - https://www.evanmiller.org/why-im-learning-perl-6.html

[14:38] <benjikun> lol, it does seem pretty popular, doesn't it

[14:38] <benjikun> 3rd result in google

[14:38] <sarna_> it's a good post :)

[14:40] <benjikun> Should we include a controversial question about whether or not they find the name "Perl6" confusing

[14:40] <benjikun> I've heard a considerable amount of that

[14:42] <sarna_> I think we should

[14:45] <benjikun> alright, I added it

[14:45] <AlexDaniel> ‚ÄúWhat is your primary spoken language?‚Äù wow that's a hard one

[14:47] <benjikun> I thought it would be useful for indicating if we need to translate more perl6 things to more languages that are underrepresented

[14:48] <benjikun> ooh

[14:49] <benjikun> we could make a question about rating documentation

[14:49] <AlexDaniel> I thought about that, yeah

[14:52] <benjikun> added

[14:52] <sarna_> hmm, I think we'd need something akin to the rust book

[14:52] <sarna_> a good english resource

[14:52] <sarna_> and then translate this

[14:54] <benjikun> I'd say `perl6intro.com` is our most-translated newcomer resource

[14:55] *** skids joined
[14:55] <El_Che> primary language is very region dependent

[14:55] <El_Che> I think most duth speakers switch to english resources right away

[14:55] <sarna_> benjikun: it's not as thorough as the rust book

[14:55] <El_Che> dutch

[14:55] <AlexDaniel> yeah maybe that question is not needed

[14:55] <sarna_> same for any scandinavian language

[14:56] <benjikun> hm

[14:56] <El_Che> while for bigger language groups (like spanish or frnch), native doc would be more useful

[14:56] <araraloren_>  yeah, for me I perfer EN version

[14:57] <El_Che> "Would you prefer the documentation in your native language instead of English? Yes -> which

[14:58] <sarna_> El_Che++

[14:58] <benjikun> El_Che: good idea

[14:58] * sarna_ doesn't know how ++s work

[15:01] <benjikun> Alright, I've remade that question

[15:16] *** jjjjj joined
[15:21] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: hmm, what about ‚Äúwhat is the version of your currently installed rakudo?‚Äù

[15:21] <AlexDaniel> or something like that

[15:21] <benjikun> yeah, I think that could be useful for sure

[15:21] <benjikun> I dig it

[15:21] <AlexDaniel> huggable: deb

[15:21] <huggable> AlexDaniel, Alpine, CentOS, Debian, Fedora, OpenSUSE and Ubuntu Rakudo packages: https://github.com/nxadm/rakudo-pkg#rakudo-pkg

[15:21] <El_Che> "how often do you upgrade Rakudo?" Monthly, quaterly, yearly of less

[15:21] <timotimo> maybe also "how did you install your rakudo"

[15:22] <benjikun> timotimo: We've got that

[15:22] <El_Che> What is the source of your rakudo "self compiled", "rakudo star", "rakudo-pkg", homebrew, "provided by the distribution", other ...

[15:23] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: it's already there

[15:23] <timotimo> good

[15:23] <El_Che> ok

[15:24] <benjikun> what versions of rakudo should we include in that question AlexDaniel?

[15:24] <timotimo> does your rakudo run on parrot?

[15:24] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: that's the issue :)

[15:24] <benjikun> hmm

[15:25] <benjikun> timotimo: lol

[15:25] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: the list of rakudo stars is here: https://rakudo.org/files/star

[15:25] <timotimo> i think it hasn't been that long since the last time someone came in here asking for help with a parrotkudo

[15:25] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: and it goes back to 2017.07, but I think we can say ‚Äúolder than 2016.01‚Äù

[15:26] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: that sounds good to me

[15:26] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: that's like debian wheezy

[15:27] <benjikun> I'll add it

[15:27] <timotimo> maybe also some version of ubuntu

[15:27] *** jjjjj left
[15:27] <timotimo> maybe a centos?

[15:27] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: wheezy ‚Äì ‚Äúfrom 26th April 2016 to 31st May 2018‚Äù

[15:28] <AlexDaniel> timotimo: so in May of this year it was legitimately possible to come and ask about rakudo 2012.01

[15:28] <timotimo> so barely past its end of life

[15:29] *** araraloren_ left
[15:29] <timotimo> btw, we don't really have something for "long term support" of rakudo versions yet; when do we want to start with that?

[15:29] <benjikun> how hard would it be

[15:30] <timotimo> depends on how much work we want to put into it

[15:30] <timotimo> we might have to think about every commit whether it should go into an LTS, too

[15:30] <AlexDaniel> well, I guess we've been getting away without it because the language is still v6.c

[15:30] <AlexDaniel> it's not the kind of LTS most expect and need, but it's better than nothing :)

[15:30] <timotimo> and commits that build on previous commits that didn't make it into the LTS are going to be double work

[15:30] <benjikun> hmm

[15:31] <timotimo> i haven't thought about it much, but that's how i reckon it would look

[15:32] <AlexDaniel> ‚ÄúDo you have a need for a proper LTS (long term support) version of rakudo?‚Äù

[15:32] <timotimo> oh, yes, good point

[15:32] <benjikun> yeah, that sounds good to throw in there

[15:32] *** thowe2 joined
[15:33] <timotimo> maybe add more answers than yes and no, like one that basically means "yes, but only because i don't know about use v6.c yet"

[15:35] <AlexDaniel> haha that sounds a bit wrong :D

[15:35] <timotimo> i think it'd help us figure out if our language versioning is useful to people like that, but i'm not sure

[15:36] <thowe> Kaiepi, error is here:  https://gist.github.com/thowe/514c09e880077b150769d3ac6da3999f

[15:36] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: see also some comments here: http://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6-dev?date=2018-06-24#l84

[15:36] <benjikun> ah, will do, thanks

[15:38] <Kaiepi> thowe: try using egcc instead of clang

[15:39] <thowe> ok, i'll have to install

[15:42] <thowe> Kaiepi, trying...  what time zone are you in?

[15:43] <Kaiepi> GMT-3

[15:43] <thowe> so, east coast...  you were up late last night :)

[15:44] <Kaiepi> yep ;)

[15:45] <thowe> tryna rebuild this old laptop so I can play with a few things while on small vacation.  wanna build somethin in Perl6 to feed Influxdb...

[15:48] *** jmerelo joined
[15:49] <pmurias> timotimo: what commits do you expect to go into a LTS version?

[15:51] <timotimo> things related to security, surely

[15:51] <El_Che> lizmat: repeat the questions!

[15:51] <El_Che> :)

[15:52] <timotimo> other than that i have no clue

[15:53] <El_Che> LTS is something that a distro will stabilize on

[15:53] <El_Che> I don't see the point for a compiler

[15:54] <El_Che> the c/d/... version is how perl6 does lts

[15:55] <timotimo> OK

[15:55] <El_Che> timotimo: of course, in my humble opinion

[15:56] *** e5r joined
[15:57] <tobs> I'm kinda bothered by this: https://github.com/perlpilot/p6-File-Temp/issues/27

[15:57] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: I feel the same way, but I'm not so sure‚Ä¶ debian comes up with a release about every two years

[15:57] <tobs> What I gather is that DESTROY shouldn't be used to clean up external resources, but the logs I read were quite dated. Was something done in the meantime to fix that particular case there?

[15:58] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: in these two years rakudo can diverge so much that applying security patches can possibly be a big trouble

[15:58] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: and then every distro maintainer has to struggle with it in their own way

[15:59] <El_Che> AlexDaniel: that's the reason that a lot of projects offer packages for debian

[15:59] <AlexDaniel> El_Che: what do you mean?

[16:00] <El_Che> that debian will stick with a very old release on stable and backport the aboslute minimum

[16:00] *** Tideflat joined
[16:00] <El_Che> and that people running debian stable will use an alternative source (mostly upstream) for soft that require newer versions

[16:01] <El_Che> (new openjdk, etc)

[16:01] <El_Che> it's possible that debian stays on LTS -1

[16:01] <El_Che> things like rhel and centos will do tha

[16:01] <El_Che> t

[16:01] <El_Che> so'll you end up with lts -3 or -4

[16:02] <AlexDaniel> tobs: not in rakudo, I don't think

[16:03] <AlexDaniel> tobs: I wonder if https://github.com/zoffixznet/perl6-Temp-Path has the same issue

[16:04] <tobs> AlexDaniel: thanks. I imagine most of the time (free'ing C library memory, e.g.) it's not a problem because the only time when DESTROY is missed is when the process exits anyway, but for external files it's a bother.

[16:05] <tobs> I'll look into it

[16:05] *** e5r left
[16:06] *** sarna_ left
[16:08] *** sarna left
[16:10] <thowe> Kaiepi, it builds now with egcc.

[16:11] <Tideflat> In theory, could Perl 6 be used to develop Android Apps because rakudo can compile to jvm?

[16:11] <timotimo> in theory, yes

[16:12] <tadzik> it dalvik's bytecode compatible with jvm's though?

[16:12] <timotimo> oh!

[16:12] <tadzik> it's not actually jvm on android

[16:12] <timotimo> you're right, we do require invokedynamic and i think android's java didn't have that last time i looked

[16:12] <tadzik> oh right

[16:13] <tadzik> I recall that being a blocker

[16:13] <Tideflat> thank you

[16:14] <pmurias> running the js backend on android with some effort should be possible

[16:14] <pmurias> (the js backend is still far from production ready tho)

[16:14] <timotimo> won't we run into trouble because android wants to manage the lifecycles of lots of different objects?

[16:15] <timotimo> i'm not entirely sure how all of that works, but doesn't it kill off parts of your data when your app has been deemed unnecessary?

[16:15] *** kurahaupo left
[16:16] <timotimo> anyway, there's always the NDK

[16:16] <timotimo> let java be your HTML

[16:16] <tadzik> :>

[16:16] <timotimo> finally, it pays off that java called themselves that because of the success of JavaScript, even though they are nothing alike

[16:17] <benjikun> timotimo: How hard would it be to make it possible to use Perl6 for mobile development at our current stage, anyway?

[16:17] <benjikun> Would be interesting

[16:18] <timotimo> i guess it depends entirely on how you want to speak to the android APIs

[16:18] <tadzik> (and if you want your mobile platform to be android :))

[16:18] <timotimo> in rakudo-jvm you can use classes to implement interfaces, for example

[16:18] <timotimo> and instantiate classes from the "java world" and such

[16:18] <timotimo> tadzik: openmoko isn't right for everyone ;)

[16:19] <tadzik> timotimo: :) I'm a happy sailfish user myself

[16:19] *** Zoffix joined
[16:19] <Zoffix> benjikun: ? did you want something?

[16:19] <Zoffix> (re .seen)

[16:19] <timotimo> that's what i suspected, but i forgot and didn't want to assume

[16:19] <tadzik> I do make quite some use of the android compat

[16:19] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ‚ÄúHave you written any modules for the Perl 6 ecosystem?‚Äù is this question needed? I mean, we can already gather these stats from the ecosystem

[16:19] <benjikun> Zoffix: The latest post on rakudo.party has 2019 for the year

[16:20] <timotimo> what device are you on?

[16:20] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: unsure, I didn't add it

[16:20] <tadzik> timotimo: Sony Xperia X

[16:20] <jmerelo> Just a reminder we have a straw poll going on how best to prescribe hash declaration in the documentation https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2117#issuecomment-399742781

[16:20] <AlexDaniel> Zoffix: maybe you'd have some ideas for https://docs.google.com/forms/d/19qSBpGWWc9RNruxPWySHkmy3tppaqeqUNGfZpHhdsMs/edit?usp=sharing

[16:21] <Zoffix> benjikun: thanks, fixed. Wouldn't want people to know that I'm from the future...

[16:21] <benjikun> ^

[16:21] <benjikun> Zoffix: ha

[16:22] <tobs> AlexDaniel: I added that question but I wouldn't say it's needed.

[16:22] *** parv left
[16:23] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: we can actually edit the form. Is that what you want?

[16:23] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: I would add "Perl conference" to the first question, and eliminate "Academic course suggestion"

[16:23] <Zoffix> AlexDaniel: this question is kinda vague "How many private projects have you written in Perl 6? (unpublished projects)"... What's a "project"? Are throw-away scripts with a dozen lines count? 

[16:24] <Zoffix> Maybe better to split it up into "do you use one liners a lot", "how many small programs <100 lines of code you wrote" "how many large > 100lines of code"

[16:24] <Zoffix> Or just clarify what a "project" is

[16:25] <tobs> AlexDaniel: thought it was interesting in conjunction with the amount of time and frequency spent with Perl 6

[16:25] <benjikun> jmerelo: Yeah, feel free to edit questions as you see fit, it's open to anyone

[16:27] *** albongo joined
[16:27] *** albongo left
[16:27] *** albongo joined
[16:27] <jmerelo> benjikun: maybe eliminate the question about zef. I mean, there's no other choice. 

[16:27] *** espadrine joined
[16:28] <jmerelo> benjikun: some of them that could be gathered from rakudo.org download statistics might be better suppressed. There are also github statistics that can be used (although they just include the last week)

[16:29] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: why eliminate it, sounds ok

[16:29] <timotimo> i somewhat often just -I my modules, but that only works well with modules that don't have resources i think?

[16:30] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: the whole survey is kind of longish. And I don't see what kind of information we can get from that. zef must be used by basically everyone, and if they don't like it, well...

[16:31] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: Surveys: the shorter, the better.

[16:33] <benjikun> jmerelo: True, but they can skip any question if they'd like

[16:33] <Zoffix> AlexDaniel: the answer for "Do you use Perl 6 at work?" confuse me. What does "unofficially" mean in that context? I'm responsible for choosing the tech we use and for some things I chose Perl 6. Is that "officially" or "unofficially"?

[16:33] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ‚Üë :)

[16:34] <timotimo> wasn't that my (bad) suggestion? ;)

[16:34] <AlexDaniel> maybe something like ‚Äúinternally, but not for the projects we ship‚Äù was meant

[16:35] <Zoffix> that's just moves the confusion to the word "ship". We don't sell any software at work, but is pushing something we wrote for users to use considering "shipping"?

[16:35] <benjikun> What AlexDaniel said, for example, a system administrator using Perl6 without directly being paid with the USE of Perl6 in mind

[16:35] *** sarna joined
[16:35] <benjikun> perhaps that wording is unnecessary, though

[16:35] <benjikun> I'm not sure

[16:35] <Zoffix> I guess the point of confusions is this: some people who use Perl 6 at work aren't necessarily working in programming companies using standard organizational structures (my job title is Multi-Media Designer, for instance.... :/)

[16:36] <benjikun> Fair enough

[16:37] <Zoffix> Hm, "Yes, and we sell some software written in Perl 6", "Yes, for the software used by the company"

[16:37] <Zoffix> So Edument people would choose the first one, and I would choose the second one

[16:37] <benjikun> that sounds like a fair change to me

[16:38] <benjikun> perhaps "Yes, internally" would be better for the second option

[16:38] <benjikun> or maybe that could lead to confusion

[16:40] <Zoffix> The "Would you prefer the documentation in your native language instead of English? What is your native language?" could be shortened to just "Would you prefer the documentation in a different language instead of English?"

[16:40] <Zoffix> I want it in French, but it isn't my native language.

[16:40] <Zoffix> :)

[16:40] <benjikun> Yeah, the first wording does sound bulky, changing it

[16:40] <El_Che> mmm

[16:41] <El_Che> you'll get different answers

[16:41] <El_Che> I would love more spanish/french/dutch doc

[16:41] <El_Che> but I would never use them

[16:41] <benjikun> lol

[16:41] <El_Che> do you want to know what people find lacking in their own perl6 quest or if they are empathetic to other people :)

[16:42] <benjikun> former

[16:42] <benjikun> although perhaps that could give us a stronger metric on the friendliness of our community (jokes)

[16:42] <Zoffix> El_Che: but the question is **you prefer** and **instead of English** meaning you'd rather read the documentation in some other language

[16:44] *** Schepeers_ joined
[16:44] <jmerelo> StackOverflow questions per month http://data.stackexchange.com/stackoverflow/query/850977/monthly-perl6-tag-questions#graph We're kind of reaching a new plateau, but we apparently need people writing books to populate SO

[16:44] <Zoffix> The "Have you used Perl 6 in school or university?" should probably be "Do you use Perl 6 in school or university?" and the "I'm not studying" option moved to be the first answer

[16:45] <benjikun> Zoffix: done

[16:45] <Zoffix> Thanks.

[16:45] * Zoffix &

[16:45] *** Zoffix left
[16:45] *** Kaiepi left
[16:46] *** Kaiepi joined
[16:46] *** Schepeers left
[16:49] <benjikun> jmerelo: good catch, that could be pretty importance for people's first steps experience

[16:50] <jmerelo> benjikun: well, people start asking questions in SO when they're writing a book, apparently :-) Anyway, we need to expand the community so books are very welcome, hanging out in dev places too.

[16:53] *** thowe2 left
[16:54] *** thowe left
[16:56] <benjikun> Are we ever going to include Linenoise by default for arrow key usage and whatnot in the REPL?

[16:56] <benjikun> jmerelo: I saw you in the issue mentioning that

[16:57] <benjikun> I think that arrow keys working are more important than tab completion at the moment

[16:58] <jmerelo> benjikun: Ah, OK. That's for sure. I guess that will depend on the Rakudo Star bundler. I don't know who's going to be the next one... It would be good, you're right.

[16:58] <benjikun> I see, thanks for the response :)

[17:02] <jmerelo> benjikun: sure :-) Thanks for doing the survey. It will be great to know more about the community.

[17:04] *** raschipi joined
[17:05] <benjikun> of course

[17:05] <benjikun> speaking of the survey, how satisfied are we with it

[17:05] <benjikun> should we leave it up for suggestions longer or start sharing it for use?

[17:06] <tyil> jnthn: ping~

[17:06] *** hankache left
[17:07] <jmerelo> benjikun: just release it. 

[17:08] <benjikun> Alrighty, here's the link: https://goo.gl/forms/JXtrWDYFrV9ENW6x2

[17:08] <benjikun> I'll post it on the perl6 subreddit

[17:10] *** domidumont joined
[17:11] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: there's ‚ÄúOption 8‚Äù

[17:11] <benjikun> oof

[17:11] <benjikun> will remove

[17:11] <benjikun> done

[17:11] <jmerelo> benjikun: can you share the spreadsheet with answers once they are coming? 

[17:11] <benjikun> jmerelo: absolutely

[17:11] <jmerelo> I'll spread it in Twitter

[17:11] <jmerelo> benjikun: thanks.

[17:11] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ‚ÄúCan you type/use non-ascii characters‚Äù has to be a multichoice

[17:12] <AlexDaniel> because very often it's a combination of more than one method

[17:12] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: is it not?

[17:12] <benjikun> do you mean checkboxes

[17:12] <AlexDaniel> oh, ye

[17:12] <benjikun> done

[17:14] <jmerelo> benjikun: shared in Twitter https://twitter.com/jjmerelo/status/1010934030143897600

[17:14] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: I think ‚ÄúDo you use Perl 6 in school or university?‚Äù should be rephrased a bit

[17:14] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: imagine if I graduated a month ago, but used nothing but perl¬†6, what would I answer?

[17:14] <timotimo> will we seek to involve mailing-list-only community members in the design process soon?

[17:15] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: how about "Have you used Perl 6 in an academic course?"

[17:15] <benjikun> no longer indicating present tense

[17:15] *** ExtraCrispy left
[17:15] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ‚Üë what's the right way to phrase it?

[17:16] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ‚Äúhave you used perl¬†6 in academia?‚Äù or something?

[17:16] <jmerelo> benjikun, AlexDaniel: I would simply say "in academia", since you include research in the answer.

[17:16] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: He. I was writing that answer... 

[17:16] <timotimo> jmerelo: you're already publicising the form itself?

[17:16] <jmerelo> timotimo: right

[17:17] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: swapped the phrasing for "for academia"

[17:17] <jmerelo> benjikun++

[17:17] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ok, now what if I graduated 20 years ago, what would be the answer?

[17:17] <timotimo> so when we edit the form, what happens to answers that were made before an edit?

[17:17] <benjikun> timotimo: They are still saved, google forms does that

[17:18] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: and let's say never used it, for obvious reasons

[17:18] <timotimo> OK

[17:18] <jmerelo> timotimo: nothing really. If it's changed, it will become one of a kind... 

[17:18] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: I see where you're coming from

[17:19] <raschipi> Text is white in white background for me, let me try changing browser theme

[17:20] <raschipi> Still the same

[17:20] <AlexDaniel> IMO it's a good question that shows the state of perl¬†6 from a different perspective, and will allow us to evaluate the progress as we go

[17:20] <AlexDaniel> but we have to phrase it properly otherwise it's a bit useless

[17:20] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: I swapped the last answer choice in favor of "I've had no chance of using Perl 6 in academia"

[17:20] <benjikun> still seems worded a bit messily 

[17:21] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: now ‚ÄúI'm not studying‚Äù vs ‚ÄúI've had no chance of using Perl 6 in academia‚Äù ?

[17:21] <benjikun> raschipi: Not sure why that's happening, what browser(s) are you using?

[17:22] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: what if we just remove "I'm not studying"

[17:22] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ‚Üë ?

[17:23] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: OK to remove that. 

[17:23] <benjikun> there we go

[17:23] <raschipi> Fixed, it was the GNOME dark theme that was messing it up.

[17:24] <benjikun> Alright, now we wait

[17:24] <benjikun> I'm excited to see the answers to some of these

[17:25] <jmerelo> benjikun: Has anybody posted it to the Perl 6 Facebook group?

[17:25] <benjikun> jmerelo: Don't think so, I don't have a facebook

[17:25] <jmerelo> benjikun: OK, will do.

[17:25] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: maybe ‚Äú(unpublished projects, not including one-liners)‚Äù

[17:26] <AlexDaniel> or hmm I don't know

[17:26] <AlexDaniel> no, scratch that

[17:26] <jmerelo> As a side note, there were more perl6 than perl5 questions in StackOverflow in the last 24 hours.  

[17:26] *** zakharyas joined
[17:26] <benjikun> jmerelo: that's strange

[17:27] <jmerelo> Usual Perl amount is ~10 a day, usual Perl6 amount 2 going on 1 lately a day, so one order of magnitude. But there are bumps for Perl6, and dips for Perl5, so there you go.

[17:28] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: it's currently ‚Äúolder than 2016.01‚Äù but let's change it to ‚Äúolder than 2015.01‚Äù

[17:28] <jmerelo> It's not the first time it's happened, but obviously it does not happen often. And still the monthly average is way different.  It's not only Perl6's merit, Perl questions seem to be going down lately...

[17:28] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: will do

[17:28] <timotimo> we could have a 2d graph where x is "length of window" and y is "time offset into the past" and have each pixel's color be "which perl had more questions in this window"

[17:28] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: 2016.01 was the first star release to support v6.c, bet first rakudo with v6.c support was 2015.12

[17:28] <AlexDaniel> but*

[17:29] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: so also please do add 2015.12

[17:29] <jmerelo> timotimo: er. Way over my pay grade. I basically have to ask in StackOverflow every time I make a change... 

[17:29] <benjikun> done

[17:30] <jmerelo> timotimo: but anyway, the answer now is, almost every single day, Perl. Perl6 had a streak of 3-4 days without a question, perl had like 40 in the same period.

[17:30] <jmerelo> That's why this kind of thing is unusual. 

[17:31] <AlexDaniel> benjikun, jmerelo: ok, getting back to the academia question‚Ä¶

[17:31] <AlexDaniel> let's say I studied one year ago, and some courses said ‚Äúuse any language you want‚Äù, but I didn't choose perl¬†6

[17:31] <AlexDaniel> I had a chance, but I didn't

[17:31] <benjikun> l o l

[17:31] <timotimo> that's fair

[17:31] <benjikun> How should we word it to include that?

[17:32] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: that's probably the case for everyone. I don't know of any academic course including Perl 6. Mine on cloud computing included a example of a Docker container with Perl 6

[17:32] <benjikun> we could just change it to "I haven't used Perl6 in academia"

[17:32] <AlexDaniel> but then we're getting back to the problem with those who were in academia tens of years ago

[17:32] <AlexDaniel> and obviously didn't use it

[17:33] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel, benjikun: that's probably the right way to go. Something like "Yep, I've used it in academia (for research)" and "Yep, I've used it for teaching"

[17:33] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: o yea please include ‚Äúfor teaching‚Äù

[17:33] <benjikun> will do

[17:33] <jmerelo> Or simply "Yes, I've used it in academia" and "Nope, I haven't". Yeses are going to be very few anyway.

[17:33] <AlexDaniel> maybe we'll get 0 this time, but I'm pretty close to making it 1 :)

[17:34] <benjikun> alright, done

[17:34] <AlexDaniel> or, thinking about it, jmerelo is probably 1 already :)

[17:34] <El_Che> I have used Perl 6 under the covers (to find matches in text, find frequencies and stuff like that). But I haven"t release it to other people. In fact I gave Literature people Go binaries as I didn't have the time to explain dynamic languages to them

[17:34] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: way to go! :-)

[17:34] <El_Che> so it's a tricky question

[17:35] <jmerelo> El_Che: so maybe a simple "yes"/"no" question is enough, without going into details...

[17:35] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: context: http://colabti.org/irclogger/irclogger_log/perl6?date=2018-06-24#l440

[17:35] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: great! Congrats :-)

[17:36] <AlexDaniel> I still don't like the ‚ÄúNope, I haven't‚Äù answer‚Ä¶

[17:36] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: what do you want for it to be?

[17:37] <benjikun> could we send out a tweet on @p6lert regarding the survey?

[17:37] <AlexDaniel> no

[17:38] <AlexDaniel> alerts are for potentially critical and urgent issues

[17:38] <El_Che> there the regular perl6 twitter for that

[17:39] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: We URGENTLY need to know the opinion of the Perl6 developers!!!

[17:39] <AlexDaniel> also it's down

[17:39] <jmerelo> Also: vote here https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2117#issuecomment-399742781 about hashes and how to talk about them in the docs.

[17:40] *** benjikun2 joined
[17:40] <b2gills> jmerelo: You haven't been on StackOverflow long. I remember back when there was something like one Perl¬†5 question every couple days.

[17:41] *** raschipi left
[17:41] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: maybe additional ‚ÄúI had no chance of using it (e.g. I studied before the first stable language release)‚Äù

[17:41] <AlexDaniel> I don't know‚Ä¶

[17:41] *** benjikun left
[17:41] <jmerelo> b2gills: Well, I've kinda-been, only not very active until now. When was that? 

[17:42] *** benjikun2 is now known as benjikun

[17:42] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: halp! I don't know how to phrase that!

[17:42] <jmerelo> b2gills: and anyway, would you say it's going slightly down lately?

[17:42] <b2gills> Well, I am one of the few people who was in the Private beta

[17:42] <b2gills> user id #1337

[17:43] <b2gills> s/few people/few Perl people/

[17:43] <jmerelo> b2gills: that's one cool user id, as in 1337 hax0r

[17:43] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ‚ÄúNo, I have studied recently/am studying now and I haven't used Perl¬†6‚Äù, ‚ÄúNo, I'm not in academia‚Äù

[17:43] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ‚Üë does that make any sense?

[17:44] <benjikun> "No, but I have studied recently"

[17:44] <benjikun> "No, and I'm not in academia"

[17:44] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: Really, I don't think including excuses for people not using it will gather any amount of responses. Yes and no are quite enough.

[17:45] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: but just ‚Äúyes‚Äù is meaningless without the details that we have now

[17:45] <jmerelo> I mean, academia is all kind of things, maybe including MOOCs and somesuch. 

[17:46] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: and just ‚Äúno‚Äù will result in people saying ‚Äúhey look, there's no perl¬†6 in academia‚Äù even if 90%+ of responders were never in academia after 2015.12

[17:46] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: we can cross that "yes" with other responses if needed. And I don't think there will be so many after all. 

[17:46] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: You wouldn't fare well as a political consultant. One thing is the answer to a poll, another how you spin it.

[17:47] <AlexDaniel> :)

[17:47] <jmerelo> I guess this is mostly for us. If we see there's not much use in academia, well, let's try to encourage that. If there's more than expected, let's try to help that with class material and stuff.

[17:48] <benjikun> That sounds good to me ^

[17:48] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: no big deal, really.

[17:48] <benjikun> I'm not sure how we could encourage it, but I'm all for it

[17:49] <jmerelo> benjikun: well, I just submitted a (hidden) perl 6 talk to a Google Developer Group devfest that is going to take place at my university next November. So there¬°s that

[17:49] <benjikun> The same for things like listing "Perl 6" as a permissible language on hackathon websites

[17:49] <jmerelo> benjikun: I'll also ask my university library to buy a few copies of Learning Perl 6 as soon as it comes out. 

[17:49] <jmerelo> benjikun: I mean, there's a lot of stuff that can be done.

[17:50] <benjikun> jmerelo: That's sweet

[17:50] <jmerelo> benjikun: BTW, DrForr is grateful in Twitter for having mentioned Perl6::Tidy

[17:51] <benjikun> :)

[17:53] <AlexDaniel> :)

[17:55] <AlexDaniel> actually the current state of the academia question is fine

[17:55] <AlexDaniel> maybe not that precise, but it should be clear enough for most people

[17:55] <AlexDaniel> maybe I'd change ‚Äúfor myself‚Äù to ‚Äúby myself‚Äù

[17:55] <AlexDaniel> and ‚ÄúYes, I give courses and I've used it for teaching‚Äù, or something like that

[17:56] <benjikun> Updated with your suggestions 

[17:56] <benjikun> I think it sounds pretty reasonable now

[17:57] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: ok now there's this old professor who's in academia for tens of years but haven't studied recently

[17:57] <AlexDaniel> OK

[17:57] <AlexDaniel> can we just have Other‚Ä¶ field??

[17:57] <AlexDaniel> that'd solve everything

[17:57] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: hey, old professors study all the time :-)

[17:57] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: hey speak for yourself alright

[17:57] <AlexDaniel> :)

[17:57] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: yep, that's sad, but true.

[17:58] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: so yeah, just add ‚ÄúOther‚Ä¶‚Äù and we can move on with our lives :)

[17:58] <benjikun> done

[17:58] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: also, I take offense at being called "old". But at least you don't call me "ancient" :-)

[17:58] <jmerelo> ... or obsolete

[17:58] <benjikun> are you a professor jmerelo?

[17:59] <jmerelo> benjikun: right, full professor since 2009

[17:59] * jmerelo shows credential http://directorio.ugr.es/static/PersonalUGR/*/show/85b5c4d470d438dae59a06db08bc4d97

[17:59] <benjikun> that's nice, what classes do you teach?

[17:59] *** zakharyas left
[17:59] <jmerelo> benjikun: cloud computing at undergrad and master's level, mainly.

[18:00] *** zakharyas joined
[18:00] <benjikun> ah, I see

[18:00] <jmerelo> benjikun: https://jj.github.io/IV and https://jj.github.io/CC

[18:00] <jmerelo> benjikun: and I use Perl for pre-grading assignments in a continuous integration environment :-)

[18:01] <benjikun> sounds like the right kind of teacher :)

[18:01] <jmerelo> benjikun: maybe Perl 6 next year, but for the time being, the Perl scripts work pretty well.

[18:01] <AlexDaniel> these materials are really great except that I can't read them :)

[18:01] <benjikun> same, ha

[18:01] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: They're in this barbarian language called Spanish :-)

[18:02] <jmerelo> Yep, we don't have courses in any other language in our school, I'm afraid.

[18:02] <jmerelo> benjikun: how are answers coming up?

[18:02] *** bwisti joined
[18:03] <benjikun> jmerelo: 13 responses so far

[18:03] <benjikun> https://docs.google.com/forms/d/19qSBpGWWc9RNruxPWySHkmy3tppaqeqUNGfZpHhdsMs/edit#responses

[18:03] <jmerelo> benjikun: not bad, but we'll have to keep posting it here, in Twitter, Facebook, and the rest of the channels... 

[18:03] <benjikun> you can view all of them in charts at that link

[18:03] <jmerelo> benjikun: also perl6-user mailing list. Do you subscribe to that one?

[18:04] <thundergnat> Hmm. Just looking the the Perl 6 user survey; "Have you written any modules for the Perl 6 ecosystem?" I actually have released exactly 5 public modules... should I pick 1-5 or 5-10? (decisions decisions...) :-)

[18:04] <benjikun> jmerelo: Yeah, I do

[18:04] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: is it safe to share that link? what if others edit stuff?

[18:04] *** lizmat left
[18:05] <jmerelo> benjikun: just closed up :-) Thanks.

[18:05] <jmerelo> benjikun: can you send it there?

[18:05] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: aw crap academia question needs to be with checkboxes I think‚Ä¶

[18:05] <benjikun> thundergnat: Thanks for the catch, I fixed it

[18:06] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: done

[18:07] <thundergnat> benjikun: Also 6-10 and 10-20.

[18:07] <jmerelo> benjikun: very interesting answers :-)

[18:07] <AlexDaniel> do we need ‚ÄúHave you ever contributed to perl¬†6 development?‚Äù to differentiate between devs and users?

[18:07] <AlexDaniel> or maybe next time?

[18:07] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: if you'd like, I can turn off the link sharing

[18:07] <jmerelo> And some people has not used zef. Interesting...

[18:07] <benjikun> I'm not sure if anyone in here would mess with us

[18:07] <jmerelo> benjikun: you can share it only for viewing, not editing.

[18:07] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: this channel is publicly logged, the link can be picked up by spam bots if there are any

[18:08] <benjikun> jmerelo: I thought so too, but I don't see the option now that I look under "Link sharing"

[18:08] <jmerelo> benjikun: maybe include docker containers in "how did you install Perl 6"?

[18:08] <MasterDuke> jmerelo: fwiw, i don't really use zef. i don't use many modules, so i just have moritz++'s perl6-all-modules checked out and -I anything i need

[18:09] <benjikun> jmerelo: will do

[18:09] <jmerelo> benjikun: maybe you can just unpublish it and then share the resulting spreadsheet read-only?

[18:09] <AlexDaniel> 18.8% people haven't used zef. Amazing

[18:10] <benjikun> jmerelo: Done, will do

[18:10] <benjikun> https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1wi2wY30yiIEJTqcoUa8321zW_KWZeDxx2T15g_WdE4M/edit#gid=23100692

[18:11] <jmerelo> benjikun: OK, that's perfect. Thanks.

[18:11] <benjikun> :)

[18:11] <benjikun> later on, I'll take a screenshot of the charts and or make new charts if you'd like (for viewing pleasure)

[18:11] <jmerelo> benjikun: I've requested permission anyway so that I can see the response summary too, if you don't mind.

[18:11] *** raschipi joined
[18:13] *** benjikun2 joined
[18:13] <benjikun2> jmerelo: granted permission

[18:13] <jmerelo> benjikun2: thanks!

[18:13] <benjikun2> sorry about disconnecting frequently, internet problems currently

[18:14] <raschipi> AlexDaniel: Can you check the relation between n using zef and intalling from distro packages?

[18:14] <raschipi> not having used*

[18:14] <AlexDaniel> benjikun2: ‚Üë

[18:17] *** benjikun left
[18:17] <benjikun2> raschipi: Out of the three people that chose "I haven't used it" for the zef question, one chose "Distribution packages", one chose "I've never installed perl6", and one chose "Rakudobrew" for the installation question.

[18:17] <jmerelo> benjikun2, benjikun: It's a great resource to know about the community, and many answers are kinda surprising. When we reach ~100, I'll try and do some analysis, including what raschipi wants.

[18:17] <benjikun2> it'll be nicer once we get a flow of more answers, for sure

[18:17] <AlexDaniel> yeah

[18:17] <AlexDaniel> benjikun2++

[18:23] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: fwiw the unicode question is my doing, and I'm fairly confident no one will answer ‚ÄúOther‚Ä¶‚Äù :)

[18:23] <AlexDaniel> I don't know any other way to input unicode characters

[18:24] <AlexDaniel> please let me know if there's something else, I'd love to hear it

[18:24] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: fwiw maybe someone can use that list to extend unicode_entry page

[18:25] <benjikun2> You could manually type out the unicode ID for each special character you use, lol

[18:25] <AlexDaniel> benjikun2: that's listed as ‚Äúalt codes‚Äù

[18:25] <benjikun2> oh, jeez

[18:26] *** benjikun2 is now known as benjikun

[18:26] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Dist-Helper-0.20.0.tar.gz by TYIL http://modules.perl6.org/dist/Dist::Helper:cpan:TYIL

[18:29] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: right, I hadn't thought about that...

[18:35] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: uh, ok more corrections :)

[18:35] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: would you consider perl¬†6 bla-bla question

[18:36] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: change it to ‚ÄúDo you consider‚Äù

[18:36] <AlexDaniel> otherwise I guess there can be a misunderstanding

[18:36] <benjikun> AlexDaniel: updated

[18:36] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: then there's rakudo version question

[18:37] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: but if you answered ‚ÄúI don't use perl6 anymore‚Äù then I guess it needs an option ‚Äúno rakudo installed right now‚Äù, or something like that

[18:38] <benjikun> alright, added

[18:39] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: also in the header it should probably say ‚Äúall questions are optional, so feel free to skip‚Ä¶‚Äù

[18:39] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: otherwise there's an impression that the form maybe will not submit just because you can't answer some

[18:39] <AlexDaniel> whew :)

[18:40] <benjikun> fixed

[18:43] <AlexDaniel> hmmm someone answered dead keys, but I don't know any dead key that'd result in a perl¬†6 operator‚Ä¶ I should revise that

[18:44] <AlexDaniel> maybe there's something for math

[18:44] <AlexDaniel> but it's right that you can still use it for non-ascii variable names

[18:46] *** domidumont left
[18:48] <MasterDuke> i would suggest adding ruby as option in the other language question

[18:49] <AlexDaniel> MasterDuke: it's still possible through ‚ÄúOther‚Ä¶‚Äù field

[18:49] <MasterDuke> ah, right

[18:51] <CIAvash[m]> Why does the survey need a "Sign in"?

[18:51] *** raschipi left
[18:55] <benjikun> CIAVash[m]: Settings were changed since beginning, shouldn't now

[18:58] <benjikun> Yep, all good to go

[18:58] *** sarna left
[19:00] <jmerelo> benjikun: some has voted down on everything... An unhappy customer.

[19:00] <benjikun> jmerelo: Probably a troll

[19:00] <jmerelo> I'm happy with the 7 mode the documentation gets. :-) 7 is fair. Let's try to push it towards 8...

[19:02] <benjikun> Me too, all things considered, 7 is pretty good

[19:05] <benjikun> Under the question about module requests, one user says "I'm not aware of anything rivalling Go's context use everywhere"

[19:05] <benjikun> What is Go's context use?

[19:05] <jmerelo> benjikun: that's probably El_Che 

[19:05] <jmerelo> I have no idea either.

[19:06] <El_Che> hi

[19:06] <benjikun> some concurrency thing

[19:06] *** BenGoldberg joined
[19:06] <El_Che> I haven't filled in the survey yet

[19:06] <jmerelo> El_Che: Then Sue Spence, maybe. Do you know what's that?

[19:06] <benjikun> El_Che: https://goo.gl/forms/JXtrWDYFrV9ENW6x2 when you get a chance

[19:07] <El_Che> "Are there any modules that you need in Perl 6 that aren't readily available? If so, what?

[19:07] <El_Che> "

[19:07] <El_Che> that one?

[19:07] <benjikun> Yeah

[19:07] <El_Che> The response does not make any sense to me

[19:07] <El_Che> (and I use Go quite often)

[19:07] <benjikun> I'm assuming they're talking about this: https://blog.golang.org/context

[19:08] <El_Che> yes, but it's that a module?

[19:08] <benjikun> hm

[19:09] <El_Che> pretty much all web stuff works with a context

[19:09] <El_Che> that holds the request, response, headers, auth, etc

[19:10] <jmerelo> El_Che: probably Cro does something like that 

[19:11] <El_Che> I think go has 1 layer of indirection less

[19:12] <El_Che> I see what the poster meant if seen like that

[19:12] <El_Che> eg in a lot of go web mini frameworks you chain middlewares and handlers by passing the context around and eventually returning an error

[19:13] <El_Che> cro seem to use things like before and after in the handler block

[19:15] <El_Che> How do not now how cro handles threading in this case, but I find it conceptually easier to understand

[19:16] <benjikun> I see

[19:16] <El_Che> I do not...

[19:16] <benjikun> for anyone subscribed to the email lists, did you get the email I sent out?

[19:16] <El_Che> was the beginning of that sentence

[19:17] *** jmerelo left
[19:17] <benjikun> should be titled "Perl 6 User Survey - June 2018"

[19:22] <timotimo> El_Che: if you don't immediately emit the result of your middleware processing, the pipeline will just wait until it happens

[19:22] <timotimo> El_Che: i.e. just do whatever threading you want, and eventually "emit" the result

[19:23] <El_Che> it looks good to me

[19:32] *** darutoko left
[19:52] *** Kaiepi left
[19:52] *** Kaiepi joined
[20:03] <benjikun> 41 responses to the survey so far

[20:06] <MasterDuke> hm, wonder if a question about interaction with the broader community would have been useful. e.g., do you actively blog, post on SO, hang out on IRC, go to conferences, ...

[20:06] *** wamba left
[20:06] <benjikun> I thought about including one like that for IRC

[20:07] <AlexDaniel> maybe next time

[20:07] *** wamba joined
[20:08] <benjikun> we could include one-question polls that change frequently somewhere on perl6.org to make it less of a hassle for people

[20:08] <benjikun> not as unified or anything, but could be useful data nonetheless

[20:09] <benjikun> I've seen websites that do that

[20:30] *** ufobat_ left
[20:33] *** p6noob joined
[20:35] <p6noob> Hi, for Junctions, https://docs.perl6.org/type/Junction says "The type of a Junction does not affect the number of items in the resultant Junction after autothreading.",  but in the next sentence it says "the compile is allowed to short-circuit autothreading".

[20:36] <p6noob> if a Junction result is always the same size until put into boolean context, where would it ever get short-circuited?  It seems to me every element must always be evaluated in order to maintain the junction size.

[20:37] <p6noob> the compiler*

[20:38] <AlexDaniel> p6noob: yeah, confusing

[20:39] <AlexDaniel> p6noob: can you open a ticket? https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/

[20:39] <p6noob> Okay, will do

[20:39] <AlexDaniel> what it says is about right, but the phrasing can be clarified

[20:45] *** BenGoldberg left
[20:46] *** Zoffix joined
[20:46] *** Zoffix left
[20:57] *** molaf left
[21:00] <p6noob> AlexDaniel: do you any suggestion for an improved description of short-circuiting in regard to junctions?

[21:03] *** zakharyas left
[21:03] <AlexDaniel> p6noob: hmm not really, I'd leave that to experts :)

[21:04] <p6noob> AlexDaniel: heh.. fair enough. thanks.

[21:04] <p6noob> fwiw, posted a doc issue.

[21:05] *** Tideflat left
[21:06] <AlexDaniel> p6noob++ :)

[21:25] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 2c921344ce | (Zoffix Znet)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Junction.pod6

[21:25] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Clarify junctional short-circuiting

[21:25] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[21:25] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Closes https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2120

[21:25] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/2c921344ce

[21:25] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Junction

[21:35] <tyil> LoneStar isn't mentioned as a way to get Perl 6 in the survey :(

[21:35] <AlexDaniel> benjikun: ‚Üë

[21:35] <AlexDaniel> tyil: I think those who use it can still use Other‚Ä¶ field?

[21:36] <tyil> it wasn't a super serious downside :p

[21:44] *** turdmonkey joined
[21:44] <turdmonkey> Hello.

[21:45] <tyil> hi

[21:51] <turdmonkey> Anyone go to perlcon?

[21:52] <turdmonkey> My work sent me. It was great. Larry Wall is a super nice and humble guy.

[21:52] <tyil> you mean The Perl Conference? or is there yet another one I havent heard about ;~;

[21:53] <turdmonkey> TPC

[21:53] <tyil> ah

[21:53] <tyil> I'm going to TPC in Glasgow

[21:53] <turdmonkey> cool

[21:54] <turdmonkey> I met Randall Schwartz, too

[21:54] <tyil> there was recently one in Saltlake City i believe

[21:54] <turdmonkey> got he and Larry Wall's signatures on my books

[21:54] <turdmonkey> giggled like a schoolgirl

[21:54] <turdmonkey> yep that's the one

[21:55] <tyil> I went to my first one in Amsterdam last year, was great fun

[21:55] <tyil> met a lot of awesome folk

[21:56] <tyil> and now I have a talk scheduled for a perl workshop as well 

[21:56] <tyil> I want to do a perl 6 talk on FOSDEM next year as well

[21:56] * pmurias had his presentation as almost the last thing at TPC::EU so he spent most of it super stressed out :|

[21:57] <tyil> I hope I won't be too stressed 

[21:57] <tyil> it's my first public speaking event at NLPW

[21:59] <turdmonkey> tyil, I find that it's best to confront your fears head on. Just go up there naked already so you are in total control.

[21:59] <tyil> part of the crowd probably has seen me naked already

[21:59] <tyil> does it still apply in that case?

[22:01] <turdmonkey> Not sure, that's a technicality.

[22:01] <turdmonkey> i'm having a weird issue when trying to run `zef install HTTP::UserAgent`

[22:02] <tyil> could you post the error in paste site?

[22:02] <turdmonkey> it says, "#NETWORK_TESTING was not set", and I cannot find anything with Google about it. Does anyone know what this ,eams?

[22:02] <tyil> oh

[22:02] *** joya joined
[22:02] <tyil> if you set the environment variable NETWORK_TESTING to some truthy value, such as 1, it will run those

[22:02] <turdmonkey> ahh it's an env var..

[22:02] <tyil> those are generally disabled by default because they poke arbitrary 3rd parties

[22:03] <tyil> and to allow clean installation even if network is dodgy

[22:03] <turdmonkey> hmmm

[22:03] <turdmonkey> is it something with zef, specifically?

[22:03] <tyil> no

[22:03] <tyil> it's specified in the module's tests

[22:04] <tyil> there's a similar thing with AUTHOR_TESTING, which generally does additional tests that are not guaranteed to succeed in generic environments

[22:04] <turdmonkey> How do I change it?

[22:04] <turdmonkey> like

[22:04] <turdmonkey> $NETWORK_TESTING=1 ..??

[22:05] <tyil> what OS are you using?

[22:05] <turdmonkey> Arch

[22:05] <tyil> AUTHOR_TESTING=1 zef install HTTP::UserAgent

[22:05] <turdmonkey> oooh

[22:06] <turdmonkey> Thanks.

[22:06] <tyil> no problem :)

[22:07] <tyil> if it's not asked on Stack Overflow yet, and you want some free reputation, you can ask it there as well

[22:07] <turdmonkey> haha

[22:08] <tyil> (I'm serious on that part, we're trying to increase online presence, and SO is generally a well used medium to find answers to questions like this)

[22:09] <turdmonkey> Hm, I see.

[22:24] *** perlpilot joined
[22:25] *** espadrine left
[22:26] *** Khisanth left
[22:26] *** turdmonkey left
[22:35] *** Sgeo joined
[22:38] *** wamba left
[22:51] *** Khisanth joined
[22:54] *** pmurias left
[22:55] *** sno left
[22:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 46384a1c8d | Coke++ | writing-docs/STYLEGUIDE.md

[22:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: whitespace

[22:59] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/46384a1c8d

[23:01] *** raschipi joined
[23:03] *** ToddAndMargo joined
[23:04] <ToddAndMargo> Hi All,  I am trying to check if a directory exists.   This works:$ p6 'say "zef.git".IO.d.Bool;'   True 

[23:04] <ToddAndMargo> But this throws an error: `if not {$WorkingDir}.IO.d.Bool  { mkdir "{$WorkingDir}", 0o766; }`     No such method 'IO' for invocant of type 'Block'

[23:05] <ToddAndMargo> What am I doing wrong, this time?

[23:05] <raschipi> It's what's on the tin, calling IO in a block doesn't work, you need to call it in a string.

[23:07] <raschipi> What's in $WorkingDir? It's a String, the name of the directory?

[23:07] <ToddAndMargo> So, remove the{}  ?

[23:07] <raschipi> Just drop the braces

[23:07] <ToddAndMargo> works.  Thank you!

[23:07] <raschipi> No problem.

[23:08] <raschipi> Any time.

[23:09] *** perlpilot left
[23:16] <geekosaur> I see a misunderstanding here, that {$x} in perl 6 is somehow the same as shell's ${x}. it's not.

[23:17] <geekosaur> in a double quoted string, { some expression } interpolates the result of that expression.

[23:17] <geekosaur> m: "it's { sin 5 }".say

[23:17] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´it's -0.9589242746631385‚ê§¬ª

[23:19] <raschipi> ToddAndMargo: do you see the difference? {...} in Perl6 works like in C, ity creates a block.

[23:21] <geekosaur> or a hash, in some contexts; or as a postcircumfix, associative indexing (e.g. %foo{$key})

[23:22] <jnthn> tyil: Sorry, was afk pretty much the whole day

[23:22] <tyil> I noticed 

[23:22] <tyil> no worries, though

[23:22] <tyil> it's not a matter of life and death

[23:23] <tyil> you feel like discussing something in pm, or are you planning to sleep soon?

[23:23] <raschipi> m: if {"evalbot"}.IO.d

[23:23] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5===‚ê§Expression needs parens to avoid gobbling block‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3if {"evalbot"}7‚èè5.IO.d‚ê§Missing block (apparently claimed by expression)‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3if {"evalbot"}.IO.d7‚èè5<EOL>‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[23:23] <raschipi> m: if ({"evalbot"}.IO.d)

[23:23] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5===‚ê§Expression needs parens to avoid gobbling block‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3if ({"evalbot"}7‚èè5.IO.d)‚ê§Missing block (apparently claimed by expression)‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3if ({"evalbot"}.IO.d)7‚èè5<EOL>‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[23:24] <raschipi> m: if ({"evalbot"}.IO.d) { say 'so'}

[23:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´No such method 'IO' for invocant of type 'Block'‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[23:24] <raschipi> m: if ({"evalbot"}().IO.d) { say 'so'}

[23:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´so‚ê§¬ª

[23:24] <raschipi> m: if {"evalbot"}().IO.d { say 'so'}

[23:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´so‚ê§¬ª

[23:24] <raschipi> m: my $WorkingDir = 'evalbot'; if {"evalbot"}().IO.d { say 'so'}

[23:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´so‚ê§¬ª

[23:24] <raschipi> m: my $WorkingDir = 'evalbot'; if {"evalbot"}().IO.d { say "$WorkingDir exists"}

[23:24] <camelia> rakudo-moar e9351cbaa: OUTPUT: ¬´evalbot exists‚ê§¬ª

[23:25] *** sno joined
[23:25] <raschipi> Sorry for the spam, I thought I was msg camelia

[23:25] <jnthn> tyil: Yeah, pretty soon...though if it's easy/quick I can :)

[23:26] <tyil> I'm not sure if it's easy or quick, but I can propose my question and you can decide whether you want to look at it later if you want

[23:30] *** sno left
[23:31] <ToddAndMargo> Thank you.  The light bulb went off after you guys told me to remove the bracket

[23:37] <raschipi> ToddAndMargo: And 'not' wil coerce to Bool, so the method call is superfluous

[23:37] <raschipi> 'if' will do it too

[23:40] <raschipi> I can keep going if trying to write more idiomatic code interests you, if you just want it to work, that's a perfectly fine line of code...

[23:43] *** syntaxman joined
[23:51] *** margeas left
[23:55] <ToddAndMargo> I use "not" a lot as it is human readable.  It is for me not Perl

[23:55] <ToddAndMargo> what am I doing wrong now?  p6 'if index "123rc456", "rc" > -1 {say "> -1"}else{say "no"};'     Cannot convert string to number: base-10 number must begin with valid digits or '.' in '‚èèrc' (indicated by ‚èè)

[23:56] <Geth> ¬¶ p6-sake: AlexDaniel self-assigned Parallel execution https://github.com/perl6/p6-sake/issues/9

[23:56] <ToddAndMargo> Ah poop.l  not enought paranthsis!

[23:56] <ToddAndMargo> ( index "123rc456", "rc" ) > -1

[23:57] <raschipi> For example, 'if not' can be spelled 'unless'.

[23:59] <ToddAndMargo> `unless` is harder for me to wrap my mind around.  Maybe it is bacuase I am use to using `not` or maybe because I am a beginner

[23:59] <raschipi> No, it's all about preference and which one represents the problem better.

