[00:00] *** lizmat joined
[00:00] <metelik> the mbc actually produced something that looks like moar vm's binary

[00:00] <metelik> i shall keep experimenting 

[00:00] <metelik> ;)

[00:01] <metelik> have a good night folks

[00:01] <timotimo> it will probably not work with just moar foo.moar, nor will it work with perl6 foo.moar

[00:01] <timotimo> it will, however, be possible to "use" it, if you direct it at the file in the right way

[00:01] *** mcmillhj left
[00:01] <timotimo> or, you know, make it a module and use automatic precomp ;)

[00:01] <metelik> o-O

[00:02] <metelik> I need to comprehend more about the guts

[00:03] <metelik> it only complained about some bits missing: nhandled exception: While looking for 'ModuleLoader.moarvm': no such file or directory    at <unknown>:1  (xxx:<dependencies+deserialize>)

[00:03] <timotimo> yeah

[00:03] <metelik> just ran out iof the bat

[00:04] *** lizmat left
[00:04] *** sarna left
[00:13] *** mcmillhj joined
[00:18] *** mcmillhj left
[00:28] *** mcmillhj joined
[00:33] *** mcmillhj left
[00:36] *** Kaiepi left
[00:40] *** markoong left
[00:40] *** committable6 left
[00:40] *** nativecallable6 joined
[00:40] *** statisfiable6 joined
[00:40] *** bisectable6 joined
[00:40] *** greppable6 joined
[00:40] *** committable6 joined
[00:44] *** mcmillhj joined
[00:48] *** mcmillhj left
[00:55] *** gabiruh joined
[01:14] *** mcmillhj joined
[01:19] *** mcmillhj left
[01:24] *** mniip left
[01:26] *** skids joined
[01:27] *** mniip joined
[01:29] *** stmuk_ joined
[01:32] *** stmuk left
[01:34] *** mcmillhj joined
[01:34] *** ChoHag left
[01:37] *** benchable6 joined
[01:39] *** mcmillhj left
[01:46] *** spycrab0 left
[02:10] *** mcmillhj joined
[02:11] *** subroot joined
[02:14] *** mcmillhj left
[02:24] *** mcmillhj joined
[02:29] *** mcmillhj left
[02:38] *** gabiruh left
[02:49] *** gabiruh joined
[03:01] *** mcmillhj joined
[03:02] *** skids left
[03:04] *** subroot left
[03:06] *** mcmillhj left
[03:12] *** skids joined
[03:20] *** mcmillhj joined
[03:25] *** mcmillhj left
[03:38] *** BenGoldberg joined
[03:44] *** raynold joined
[03:49] *** mcmillhj joined
[03:50] *** eliasr left
[03:50] *** kerframil left
[03:54] *** mcmillhj left
[03:55] *** MasterDuke joined
[04:02] *** wamba joined
[04:08] *** mcmillhj joined
[04:12] *** mcmillhj left
[04:14] *** mcmillhj joined
[04:18] *** gabiruh left
[04:18] *** mcmillhj left
[04:27] *** mcmillhj joined
[04:32] *** mcmillhj left
[04:35] *** blackberry9900 joined
[04:39] *** blackberry9900 left
[04:51] *** BenGoldberg left
[04:56] *** curan joined
[04:58] *** mcmillhj joined
[05:01] *** aborazmeh joined
[05:01] *** aborazmeh left
[05:01] *** aborazmeh joined
[05:03] *** mcmillhj left
[05:04] *** stmuk joined
[05:07] *** stmuk_ left
[05:11] *** skids left
[05:17] *** mcmillhj joined
[05:22] *** mcmillhj left
[05:22] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[05:23] *** ufobat_ joined
[05:33] *** mcmillhj joined
[05:36] *** konsolebox left
[05:38] *** mcmillhj left
[05:39] *** konsolebox joined
[05:57] *** jmerelo joined
[05:59] *** zostay joined
[06:00] *** wamba left
[06:08] *** mcmillhj joined
[06:11] *** aborazmeh left
[06:13] *** mcmillhj left
[06:14] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[06:14] <squashable6> jmerelo, Next SQUASHathon in 25 days and ‚âà3 hours (2018-08-04 UTC-12‚åÅUTC+14). See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[06:14] <jmerelo> releasable: status

[06:15] <jmerelo> releasable6: status

[06:15] <jmerelo> .tell AlexDaniel releasable seems to be down.

[06:15] <yoleaux> jmerelo: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[06:16] *** releasable6 joined
[06:16] <AlexDaniel> .

[06:16] <yoleaux> 06:15Z <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: releasable seems to be down.

[06:16] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: looks ok to me :)

[06:16] <AlexDaniel> releasable6: status

[06:16] <releasable6> AlexDaniel, Next release in ‚âà12 days and ‚âà12 hours. 3 blockers. 0 out of 85 commits logged

[06:16] <releasable6> AlexDaniel, Details: https://gist.github.com/1fcef7b036123990787f2b45893870ea

[06:17] <AlexDaniel> 12 days‚Ä¶ it feels like I *just* did the previous one

[06:17] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: next one is on you too?

[06:18] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: yeah https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/blob/master/docs/release_guide.pod#planned-future-releases

[06:18] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: best of luck!

[06:18] <AlexDaniel> it's a good question actually

[06:19] *** SHODAN joined
[06:20] <AlexDaniel> I'm interested to know who'd be willing to do a release in case I ever can't :)

[06:21] *** Actualeyes joined
[06:22] *** mcmillhj joined
[06:23] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: will you be going to Glasgow?

[06:24] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: no

[06:24] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: too bad...

[06:24] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: actually I haven't been to any conference so far

[06:25] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: which is kinda sad! I'd love to meet people

[06:25] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: it would be a good one to start...

[06:25] *** p6noob left
[06:25] <AlexDaniel> jmerelo: maybe FOSDEM 2019 :)

[06:27] <jmerelo> AlexDaniel: also a good place to start. 

[06:27] *** mcmillhj left
[06:29] *** robertle joined
[06:31] *** psychoslave_ joined
[06:35] *** mcmillhj joined
[06:39] *** konsolebox left
[06:40] *** mcmillhj left
[06:44] *** domidumont joined
[06:49] *** domidumont left
[06:50] *** domidumont joined
[06:51] *** konsolebox joined
[06:55] *** Actualeyes left
[07:03] *** sena_kun joined
[07:04] *** wamba joined
[07:05] *** wamba left
[07:05] *** wamba joined
[07:05] *** mcmillhj joined
[07:10] *** mcmillhj left
[07:12] *** ChoHag joined
[07:12] *** psychoslave_ left
[07:16] *** Gruber joined
[07:18] <jmerelo> A new question on using callwith https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51239934/callwith-not-calling-other-candidates-what-are-other-candidates-is-it-exhaus

[07:23] *** mcmillhj joined
[07:26] *** Technato1 joined
[07:27] *** mcmillhj left
[07:31] *** aborazmeh joined
[07:31] *** aborazmeh left
[07:31] *** aborazmeh joined
[07:40] *** psychoslave_ joined
[07:43] *** wamba left
[07:47] *** mcmillhj joined
[07:52] *** mcmillhj left
[07:56] *** zakharyas joined
[07:58] *** zakharyas left
[07:58] *** Technato1 left
[07:59] *** mcmillhj joined
[07:59] *** quester left
[08:00] *** Technato1 joined
[08:03] *** dogbert17 left
[08:03] *** mcmillhj left
[08:06] *** dakkar joined
[08:06] *** benchable6 left
[08:07] *** benchable6 joined
[08:07] *** nativecallable6 left
[08:07] *** statisfiable6 left
[08:07] *** bisectable6 left
[08:07] *** greppable6 left
[08:07] *** committable6 left
[08:07] *** committable6 joined
[08:07] *** greppable6 joined
[08:07] *** bisectable6 joined
[08:07] *** statisfiable6 joined
[08:07] *** nativecallable6 joined
[08:08] *** |oLa| joined
[08:08] *** releasable6 left
[08:09] *** Gruber left
[08:10] *** perlbot joined
[08:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 493b1e35e8 | (JJ Merelo)++ | 2 files

[08:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Added a link to native types

[08:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[08:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Since most of the other related issues have been addressed, including

[08:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: the early issue #1376, this closes #1879

[08:18] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/493b1e35e8

[08:20] *** CIAvash[m] joined
[08:23] *** domidumont left
[08:23] *** lizmat joined
[08:25] *** domidumont joined
[08:29] *** Technato1 left
[08:30] *** Matthew[m] joined
[08:31] *** AlexDaniel`` joined
[08:32] *** scimon joined
[08:33] *** lance_w[m] joined
[08:34] *** mcmillhj joined
[08:34] *** ChoHag left
[08:37] *** Grrrr left
[08:38] *** Grrrr joined
[08:38] *** mcmillhj left
[08:42] *** HaraldJoerg left
[08:42] *** wamba joined
[08:45] *** mrdside joined
[08:58] *** DAKEIT joined
[08:58] <DAKEIT> HII

[08:59] <DAKEIT> HAOW ARE U

[08:59] *** DAKEIT left
[08:59] <masak> greetings, fellow caps-lock lover... dang, too late

[09:05] *** releasable6 joined
[09:05] *** pmurias joined
[09:07] *** spycrab0 joined
[09:09] *** curan left
[09:10] *** curan joined
[09:11] <lookatme> haha

[09:16] <tyil> tbrowder_: no problem

[09:16] <yoleaux> 8 Jul 2018 22:45Z <tbrowder_> tyil: i‚Äôm not going to make my eta for defn class today, life intervened, sorry.

[09:16] <tyil> I'm still very happy you're taking the time and effort to fix it :>

[09:17] *** aborazmeh left
[09:20] *** mcmillhj joined
[09:23] *** ilmari joined
[09:23] *** ilmari left
[09:23] *** ilmari joined
[09:25] *** mcmillhj left
[09:32] *** Technato1 joined
[09:35] *** mcmillhj joined
[09:36] *** mrdside left
[09:39] *** mcmillhj left
[09:43] *** klapperl joined
[09:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 63430f9dc2 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/contexts.pod6

[09:47] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Some reflow and fixes format errors

[09:47] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/63430f9dc2

[09:47] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/contexts

[10:06] *** mcmillhj joined
[10:11] *** mcmillhj left
[10:12] *** wamba left
[10:15] <Altreus> I see this is fairly old but it says I can call `close` on a Supply, which I can't https://deathbyperl6.com/create-a-perl6-terminal-progress-bar/

[10:15] <Altreus> in fact I can't seem to end a Supply.interval at all

[10:15] <Altreus> I see that I can call done on a Supplier, but I don't get a Supplier from Supply.interval

[10:25] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Test-Performance-0.1.0.tar.gz by TYIL http://modules.perl6.org/dist/Test::Performance:cpan:TYIL

[10:25] *** mcmillhj joined
[10:28] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[10:29] *** mcmillhj left
[10:29] <jnthn> m: my $tap = Supply.interval(0.5).tap(*.say); sleep 4; $tap.close;

[10:29] <camelia> rakudo-moar 032c6c0bb: OUTPUT: ¬´0‚ê§1‚ê§2‚ê§3‚ê§4‚ê§5‚ê§6‚ê§7‚ê§¬ª

[10:33] <Altreus> ah it stops when it has no more taps?

[10:33] <Altreus> I think I saw that in the doc actually

[10:34] <lizmat> .tell jmerelo Isn't it time you added yourself to the rakudo CREDITS ?

[10:34] <yoleaux> lizmat: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[10:35] <Altreus> https://docs.perl6.org/type/Supply#method_tap this says "The &done callback is called when the done method on the supply is called" but no done method is documented. It also says "For a live supply the done routine will be called on the parent Supplier."

[10:36] <jnthn> Indeed, a Supply has no done method.

[10:36] *** zakharyas joined
[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 24ce9ef927 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/functions.pod6

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Improves callwith documentation

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Provides a few examples, explains how it works, thanks mainly to

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: @jnthn as answer to [this

[10:42] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/functions

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51239934/callwith-not-calling-other-candidates-what-are-other-candidates-is-it-exhaus/51242835#51242835).

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: This closes #1904.

[10:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/24ce9ef927

[10:43] <jmerelo> lizmat: I don't think I've done anything in Rakudo proper but a bunch of issues...

[10:43] <yoleaux> 10:34Z <lizmat> jmerelo: Isn't it time you added yourself to the rakudo CREDITS ?

[10:50] *** AlexDani` joined
[10:52] *** AlexDaniel left
[10:52] *** mcmillhj joined
[10:57] *** mcmillhj left
[10:59] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[11:03] *** gabiruh joined
[11:12] <jmerelo> Altreus: Can you please raise an issue with that?

[11:12] <Altreus> caaaaaaaaaaaan do

[11:12] <jmerelo> Altreus: thanks!

[11:15] *** [Sno] joined
[11:15] *** sno left
[11:18] <Altreus> Here it is https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2161

[11:18] <jmerelo> Altreus: great!

[11:28] <Altreus> we currently have a test.p6 in the project root but we want to put the alpha on cpan. Do we have to clean up that test script or does the ecosystem have a way of deciding what to install from a tarball?

[11:28] <Altreus> when I say test

[11:28] <Altreus> I mean "Try it out" rather than "output TAP"

[11:29] <timotimo> you can just not have it end up in the tarball ;)

[11:29] <lizmat> Altreus: add it to .gitignore ?

[11:29] <timotimo> something something MANIFEST something something gitignore

[11:29] <Altreus> well we kinda want to track changes to it until we have proper tests

[11:29] <Altreus> I guess we could fix up a real test first

[11:30] <Altreus> too dead ... need coffee :P

[11:30] <timotimo> i think unless it's under bin/ or in the provides or resources section in the meta6.json it won't actually end up in the system after installation?

[11:30] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: 56 commits pushed by 14 authors

[11:30] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/master: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/compare/24ce9ef92716...cf6eb2a34c6a

[11:34] <stmuk> hmm my attempt to keep git history on importing a page from the old perl 6 book into doc seems to have mostly worked

[11:39] *** wamba joined
[11:40] *** w17t joined
[11:42] *** Technato1 left
[11:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: d7b6f9792d | (Juerd Waalboer)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Sub.pod6

[11:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Sub identifier is optional

[11:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/d7b6f9792d

[11:43] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Sub

[11:44] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 0c0dc4c0ca | (Juerd Waalboer)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/Sub.pod6

[11:44] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add example of named sub

[11:44] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[11:44] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Usage with an identifier is more common than without.

[11:44] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/0c0dc4c0ca

[11:45] <lizmat> Juerd: why not say &hello.name;  # "hello"

[11:46] *** Technato1 joined
[11:46] <Juerd> lizmat: I was copying the other example's example

[11:46] <Juerd> s/copying/following/

[11:46] <lizmat> aha.. ok

[11:46] <lizmat> only looked at the diff

[11:47] *** mcmillhj joined
[11:47] <Juerd> lizmat: I'm tempted to rewrite entire chunks of documentation though

[11:47] <Juerd> Wish I could really spend time and energy on that

[11:47] <lizmat> if it feels good, do it!

[11:48] <lizmat> Juerd: we'll gladly accept any time and energy you can spend on it

[11:48] <lizmat> but only if it feels good to you  :-)

[11:49] <Juerd> I think there should first be some discussion about example code that is overly complicated and shows off esoteric parts of the language...

[11:50] <Juerd> 4 lines into example code in class Sub, a postfix:<‚ô•> is defined. A few lines later, term:<‚ô•>.

[11:51] *** mcmillhj left
[11:51] *** zakharyas left
[11:52] *** zakharyas joined
[11:53] *** markoong joined
[11:53] *** pmurias left
[11:55] <Juerd> For now, I'm working on a series of short articles that look like documentation but aren't.

[11:55] <Juerd> That's easier than refactoring the official docs

[11:56] <lizmat> ++Juerd

[11:56] <Juerd> I have no idea yet how and when these will be released

[11:56] <stmuk> "there is more than one way to document it"

[12:05] *** ecocode joined
[12:05] *** scimon left
[12:06] *** scimon joined
[12:12] *** pmurias joined
[12:12] *** wamba left
[12:12] <jmerelo> Juerd: how do you define esoteric parts of the language?

[12:12] *** mcmillhj joined
[12:13] <jmerelo> Juerd: I mean, you might be right about that particular example. But it's virtually impossible to write a standalone example without using "esoteric" parts of the example.

[12:13] <stmuk> perl *is* estoeric

[12:13] <jmerelo> stmuk: that, too.

[12:14] <jmerelo> Juerd: also easier than refactoring the official docs is simply raising an issue if you find something extremely complicated. Please do that, by all means...

[12:14] <jmerelo> Juerd: by all means, write more documentation, tutorials, howtos, gists, the whole nine yards. But the official documentation *still* would need to be improved.

[12:15] <pmurias> jmerelo: what do you mean by standalone example?

[12:15] <Juerd> jmerelo: I think the definition from WordNet is suitable: "confined to and understandable by only an enlightened inner circle". I think code examples in documentation should be restricted to the topic of the documentation (in this case class Sub, not syntax) and very common language features that programmers from any language will at least recognise or be able to guess the meaning of.

[12:16] <jmerelo> pmurias: using only the concept that is being exemplified, basically.

[12:16] <El_Che> jmerelo: add yourself to CREDITS in case you haven't done so

[12:16] <jmerelo> Juerd: but those are subs too. And need to be documented.

[12:17] *** mcmillhj left
[12:17] <jmerelo> Juerd: I'm not saying you are not right about the particular example. It might be too esoteric. That's why it's better to raise an issue and let's see what can be done with it.

[12:17] <pmurias> we could have a separate example for simple subs 

[12:17] <Juerd> jmerelo: It needs to be documented, but not in the documentation for this class. There's now overlab between https://docs.perl6.org/type/Sub and https://docs.perl6.org/language/functions

[12:18] <jmerelo> Juerd: overlap is not really a problem. Documenting something twice, contextualized, is OK.

[12:18] <Juerd> jmerelo: But really this discussion, although I think it needs to be done, is why I'm not yet opening issues or refactoring anything.

[12:18] <lizmat> afk for a bit&

[12:19] <Juerd> jmerelo: It really drains my energy faster than it should. Note that this is not in any way your or anyone's fault, but just a result of personal circumstances.

[12:20] <jmerelo> Juerd: no problem. It would be wonderful that you did that series of tutorials. 

[12:20] <Juerd> They're more faqs really

[12:21] <Juerd> Or, well, q&a, because I didn't keep statistics :D

[12:21] <jmerelo> Juerd: that's great. Please feel free to include them into the official FAQ.

[12:22] <pmurias> jmerelo: mixing "crazy" things into related documentation for other things is a problem

[12:22] <pmurias> https://docs.perl6.org/type/Sub is describing the Sub class

[12:22] *** wamba joined
[12:23] <jmerelo> pmurias: the problem is what's crazy or not. You can't teach perl 6 in the same way you would do it with C

[12:23] *** mcmillhj joined
[12:23] <jmerelo> pmurias: most "crazy" things have a point, which is illustrating the intent, the p6yness, and awesomeness of a language.

[12:23] <pmurias> jmerelo: and the docs have information on how you change the Perl 6 grammar

[12:24] <jmerelo> pmurias: it does not hurt to explain something else (or link) when the context is a different concept. But it's quite difficult to explain a single feature in a language without the rest of the language

[12:25] <jmerelo> pmurias: which is a sane thing to do, maybe :-) I mean, if you can do it, why not document it? C docs have information on pointers, right? Best way to shoot yourself in the foot...

[12:25] <[Coke]> \\

[12:26] <jmerelo> [Coke]: hi!

[12:26] *** rindolf joined
[12:27] <pmurias> jmerelo: it does hurt

[12:27] <jmerelo> pmurias: but anyway, it's much better to refer to particular examples than talk in general. If you have seen some example whose meaning might have been muddled by the presence of some, let's say, external to the concept, features, just raise an issue!

[12:28] *** mcmillhj left
[12:28] <pmurias> jmerelo: even on the same page where are using 'oi‚ÄΩ' as example literal

[12:28] <jmerelo> pmurias: I actually love that kind of things (but it wasn't me who put it there).

[12:29] <jmerelo> pmurias: I mean, what that example is trying to illustrate are "esoteric" *fix subs. And Perl 6 is fully unicode compliant. If we don't do Unicode in examples, nobody will.

[12:30] *** Zoffix joined
[12:30] <Zoffix> e: class :: is IO::Handle { submethod TWEAK { self.encoding: 'utf8' }; }.new.print

[12:30] <evalable6> Zoffix, rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´(exit code 1) Cannot do 'print' on a handle in binary mode‚ê§  in block <unit> at /tmp/N4g76hNZAB line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[12:30] <jmerelo> pmurias: it's also using a kind of quotes that is not standard. Why not? Perl 6 can do it. We can't do the examples that say "See? Perl 6 is exactly the same as any other language, but with fancy sigils!"

[12:30] <Zoffix> I don't get it. Why doesn't it set the $!decoder ?

[12:31] *** benjikun2 joined
[12:31] <rindolf> Zoffix: hi

[12:31] <Zoffix> hi

[12:31] <pmurias> jmerelo: why can't we do such examples?

[12:32] <stmuk> grrr how long does doc.perl6.org take to update?

[12:32] <rindolf> Zoffix: see https://github.com/shlomif/rakudo-git-master-install

[12:32] *** benjikun left
[12:33] <Zoffix> stmuk: ~10m. The build looks busted: https://docs.perl6.org/build-log/build-2018-07-09T11:45+00:00.log

[12:33] <pmurias> if a beginner is learning Perl 6 IMHO he should see examples that are easy to understand and are illustraing a point rather then throwing esoteric unrelated stuff at him

[12:34] <stmuk> Zoffix: ah its the page I added .. odd since it rendered ok "on my system"

[12:34] *** araraloren joined
[12:34] <stmuk> oh I didn't test pod2onepage

[12:35] <[Coke]> lots of test failures in docs on doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[12:35] <pmurias> jmerelo: sure if you already know Perl 6 you might think and iterrobang is awesome

[12:38] <pmurias> jmerelo: but going in this direction wouldn't variable names in Sumero-Akkadian be even better?

[12:40] <pmurias> sorry for being sarcastic

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: bc7a753bfd | (Will "Coke" Coleda)++ | doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: whitespace

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/bc7a753bfd

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 86844daca7 | (Will "Coke" Coleda)++ | doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: cleanup variant

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/86844daca7

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: ac59ba32bf | (Will "Coke" Coleda)++ | doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[12:41] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/101-basics

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: remove extra .

[12:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/ac59ba32bf

[12:41] <Zoffix> oh

[12:41] <Zoffix> e: my $o := class :: is IO::Handle { method TWEAK { self.encoding: 'utf8' }; }.new.print: "foo"

[12:41] <evalable6> Zoffix, rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´(exit code 1) Cannot do 'print' on a handle in binary mode‚ê§  in block <unit> at /tmp/P0Lz4UYhjN line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[12:41] <Zoffix> e: my $o := class :: is IO::Handle { method TWEAK { self.encoding: 'utf-8' }; }.new.print: "foo"

[12:41] <evalable6> Zoffix, rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´(exit code 1) write bytes requires an object with REPR MVMOSHandle (got Scalar with REPR P6opaque)‚ê§  in block <unit> at /tmp/CbA6tNjFxB line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[12:41] <[Coke]> Down to example compilation failures in doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[12:41] <Zoffix> looks like it doesn't do translations :/

[12:42] <stmuk> [Coke]: are the failings you see under "xt"?

[12:42] <stmuk> err failures

[12:44] <[Coke]> "TEST_FILES=doc/Language/101-basics.pod6 make xtest"

[12:45] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 14d659533a | (Will "Coke" Coleda)++ | doc/Type/X/Method/NotFound.pod6

[12:45] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: cleanup variant

[12:45] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/14d659533a

[12:45] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/X::Method::NotFound

[12:46] <[Coke]> xt/examples-compilation.t (Wstat: 3840 Tests: 20 Failed: 15)

[12:46] <[Coke]>   Failed tests:  1, 3, 5, 7-14, 16, 18-20

[12:46] <[Coke]> e.g: the first snippet of code is really just data and shouldn't be compiled (needs a :lang<data> or some such on the pod declarator)

[12:46] <Altreus> I have a Types module with a subset in it, but I'm not sure how to add `is export` to it

[12:47] <Altreus> it complains with "two terms in a row"

[12:47] <[Coke]> also, haven't seen "=output" in pod6 before.

[12:47] <Altreus> subset Snowflake of Str where /^ <[ 0 1 ]> ** 64 $/;

[12:47] <[Coke]> I'm not sure subsets are exportable.

[12:47] <Zoffix> m: package Bar { subset Foo is export of Int where * > 42 }; import Bar; say 100 ~~ Foo

[12:47] <camelia> rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[12:48] <[Coke]> ... but now I am!

[12:48] <stmuk> [Coke]: =output  spec'd but only really works in head

[12:49] *** mcmillhj joined
[12:50] *** mcmillhj left
[12:50] <Altreus> ah it goes first

[12:50] <Altreus> that reads funny :)

[12:50] <Altreus> I guess 'is export' would apply to the condition

[12:50] <Zoffix> m: package Bar { subset Foo of Int is export where * > 42 }; import Bar; say 100 ~~ Foo

[12:50] <camelia> rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[12:53] <Altreus> it works :D

[12:53] <Altreus> I love how hard it is to compile a Perl6

[12:53] <Zoffix> :(

[12:54] <Zoffix> m: package Bar { subset GLOBAL::Foo of Int where * > 42 }; say 100 ~~ Foo

[12:54] <camelia> rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´True‚ê§¬ª

[12:55] *** mcmillhj joined
[12:56] <Zoffix> Found the answer to my problem: IO::Handle.TWEAK sets $!encoding to 'utf8', but doesn't set the decoder, and IO::Handle.encoding bails out if $!encoding is set to the same value as $new-encoding

[12:58] <Zoffix> m: package Bar { package Foo is export {‚Ä¶}; subset Foo of Int where * > 42 }; import Bar; say 100 ~~ Foo

[12:58] <camelia> rakudo-moar e93032a9a: OUTPUT: ¬´The following packages were stubbed but not defined:‚ê§    Bar::Foo‚ê§¬ª

[12:58] <Zoffix> boo

[12:59] *** Zoffix left
[13:01] *** Technato1 left
[13:02] *** Technato1 joined
[13:03] *** mniip left
[13:04] *** mniip joined
[13:04] *** mniip left
[13:05] *** mcmillhj left
[13:05] *** jmerelo left
[13:05] *** mcmillhj joined
[13:06] *** mniip joined
[13:06] *** p6noob joined
[13:08] *** xtreak joined
[13:13] *** Technato1 left
[13:14] *** zakharyas left
[13:18] *** benjikun joined
[13:19] *** benjikun2 left
[13:20] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 0fc864a207 | (Steve Mynott)++ | doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[13:20] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: remove reference to link in old book which breaks pod2onepage

[13:20] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/0fc864a207

[13:20] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/101-basics

[13:21] *** curan left
[13:23] * stmuk waits 2mins to ^R frantically

[13:28] <stmuk> a watched cron never runs

[13:29] <jkramer> :( I know that feeling

[13:29] *** ChoHag joined
[13:31] *** xtreak left
[13:31] <tbrowder_> .tell tyil =defn is more complicated than i thought‚Äîthink i need to change grammar‚Äîyuk!

[13:31] <yoleaux> tbrowder_: I'll pass your message to tyil.

[13:32] <tbrowder_> or actions

[13:36] *** w17t left
[13:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 1909912657 | (Steve Mynott)++ | doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[13:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: weaken Perl 6 is better claim and warn about use of say

[13:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/1909912657

[13:43] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/101-basics

[13:50] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: bb2e323b96 | (Steve Mynott)++ | htmlify.p6

[13:50] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: it's now mostly alphabetical

[13:50] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/bb2e323b96

[13:51] *** rindolf left
[13:59] *** rindolf joined
[14:03] *** skids joined
[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: b1ff1b0ae9 | (Zoffix Znet)++ | doc/Type/IO/Handle.pod6

[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: Document IO::Handle.READ/.WRITE/.EOF

[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: 

[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: Spec[^1] blocked by R#2039 https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2039

[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: 

[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: [^1] https://github.com/perl6/roast/commit/3cefe0dc59

[14:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc/handle-6.d: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/b1ff1b0ae9

[14:05] <synopsebot> R#2039 [open]: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2039 [IO][LTA] LTA IO::Handle.encoding can have a value, but no valid decoder is setup

[14:06] *** wamba left
[14:18] *** jeromelanteri joined
[14:22] *** silug joined
[14:24] *** molaf joined
[14:24] *** warriors joined
[14:25] <warriors> hi

[14:26] <warriors> when i tried to installed perl6 on windows, i got a warning that publisher could not be verified, is this normal ... not normal, can this be fixed

[14:32] <timotimo> i personally don't know how we sign our windows releases

[14:33] <masak> warriors: at which stage do you get this? I'm able to start the installer on Windows without seeing such a message.

[14:36] <warriors> you first get the welcome screen, then you click next, where it shows you the path when it will install, and you have a check box for adding perl6 to the path, if you click next on this screen, you shold get the warning

[14:36] <tyil> tbrowder_: sounds like it's more work than you anticipated :p

[14:36] <yoleaux> 13:31Z <tbrowder_> tyil: =defn is more complicated than i thought‚Äîthink i need to change grammar‚Äîyuk!

[14:36] <warriors> but i am not getting it anymore

[14:37] <warriors> it seems you only get it the first time you run the installer

[14:37] <araraloren> you can just click run it :)

[14:37] <tyil> tbrowder_: I looked through your module and it seems like it's got functionality to do String::Fold, and much more

[14:37] <warriors> yea, but is it a bad sign that the pusblisher cannot be verified, is the installer compromised

[14:38] <warriors> :)

[14:38] <tyil> I'll keep String::Fold since I like making modules in Perl 6, but yours seems like a better generic solution in case I ever need it

[14:38] <tyil> I have some other string altering stuff as well, like Text::BorderedBlock

[14:38] <tyil> which'll draw a box around text

[14:42] <warriors> maybe a sha1 can be added to verify the installer was not compromised

[14:43] <timotimo> don't we have a gpg signature step in the release guide?

[14:44] <jnthn> timotimo: Yes, but that's for signing the source releases, I believe, while I think signing an MSI needs something Windows-specific doing

[14:44] <timotimo> right, but we'd at least have a signature to verify the .msi hasn't been tampered with

[14:45] <jnthn> Sure, we an do that, just noting that signing an MSI needs a different approach.

[14:45] <timotimo> right

[14:45] <timotimo> i expect it's based on the same signature stuff that's there for emails? i forgot the name, starts with X5?

[14:51] *** jeromelanteri left
[14:51] *** fake_space_whale joined
[14:52] *** dogbert17 joined
[14:53] *** wamba joined
[14:54] *** jmerelo joined
[15:00] <tbrowder_> tyil: glad to hear yr critique, thnx. ref =defn, i see it as a ‚Äúdefinite‚Äù challenge, and will help me learn more about the grammar.

[15:00] *** sarna joined
[15:01] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: nice pun :-)

[15:03] <p6noob> I just tried out the  ==> pipeline operator,  was expecting it to work like map but obviously it doesn't.  Is there a similar operator, that does instead work like map?   So that a series of maps could be written in forward order as well?

[15:04] <timotimo> you would ==> into an actual map call to get the map

[15:04] <timotimo> because ==> can do more than just map

[15:04] <jnthn> p6noob: Just use the method form of .map maybe?

[15:04] <timotimo> yeah, methods also read from left to right

[15:05] <pmurias> jmerelo: I made new issues so my complaints don't get forgotten https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2162, https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2163

[15:05] *** wamba left
[15:05] <pmurias> ;)

[15:05] <jmerelo> pmurias: they will be duly addressed. Thanks!

[15:07] *** scimon left
[15:07] *** scimon joined
[15:09] <p6noob> timotimo, jnthn:  Those both work, thanks.

[15:10] *** curan joined
[15:10] *** curan left
[15:11] *** Sgeo_ joined
[15:13] *** Sgeo__ left
[15:17] *** ExtraCrispy left
[15:19] *** natrys joined
[15:21] *** psychoslave_ left
[15:25] *** araraloren left
[15:28] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 93af3eac56 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/Sub.pod6

[15:28] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Eliminates the interrobang closes #2163

[15:28] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/93af3eac56

[15:28] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Sub

[15:38] <jmerelo> pmurias: one tagged, the other closed. Thanks!

[15:44] *** HaraldJoerg left
[15:45] *** zakharyas joined
[15:46] *** warriors left
[15:47] *** molaf left
[15:48] *** psychoslave_ joined
[15:50] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[15:51] *** natrys left
[15:53] *** natrys joined
[15:59] *** domidumont left
[16:03] *** natrys left
[16:03] <pmurias> Parcel now can bundle a NQP say("Hello World") (using say means we are bundling up the NQP setting) 

[16:04] <pmurias> will work on removing the hack needed to this and release something on npm soon, and the I'll move on to full rakudo

[16:05] *** natrys joined
[16:08] <jmerelo> pmurias++

[16:11] *** wamba joined
[16:20] *** domidumont joined
[16:27] *** fake_space_whale left
[16:29] <tbrowder_> all: i‚Äôve put up a wiki page here describing the ‚Äúphase 1‚Äù grouping and sorting procedure for the Language page. i will be working on getting the current pages grouped under the proposed groups shown in GH issue #2160, then i will work on ‚Äúphase 2‚Äù which, if approved, will make the process much easier to use.

[16:29] <jmerelo> tbrowder_++

[16:29] <committable6> tbrowder_, https://gist.github.com/c75ed3b6e9aa9fcef489c975603720c6

[16:29] <jmerelo> I don't know what I just did.

[16:30] <jmerelo> Ah, it wasn't me but some bot answering to the name all: :-)

[16:30] <tbrowder_> all those bots around...maybe you and i are the only real people here!

[16:31] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: well, I know I am, but you seem too familiar with other bots, so not so sure... 

[16:31] <tbrowder_> i was going to say the same about you :D

[16:32] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: :-) 

[16:32] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: great you're taking care of this. Thanks!

[16:34] *** molaf joined
[16:35] <tbrowder_>  you‚Äôre welcome, it‚Äôs my pleasure, and i hope i haven‚Äôt made us head in a wrong direction, but i think it‚Äôs not a bad start if the rendering code can use it to beautify the presentation.

[16:36] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: it can also help with other things, like tagging rakudo versions some feature was made available. In general, I think it makes everything more flexible and cool.

[16:36] *** psychoslave_ left
[16:37] *** epony left
[16:37] *** dakkar left
[16:42] *** troys joined
[16:46] *** scimon left
[16:48] <DrForr> o/

[16:48] <yoleaux> 08:44Z <lizmat> DrForr: no I didn't.

[16:48] <jmerelo> DrForr: Hi!

[16:50] *** benjikun2 joined
[16:50] <DrForr> And yet again i wish I had the ability to easily read incandescent yellow irssi highlights.

[16:50] <DrForr> Or remembered to change the default. Hi, JJ.

[16:51] <DrForr> Ah, pastel is easier to read and doesn't involve optical trauma.

[16:51] *** benjikun left
[16:52] <jmerelo> DrForr: how are you doin'¬ø

[16:53] <DrForr> Right now the answer is "somewhat random" - waiting to see if the UK will let me back in, hanging out at my brother's place for the time being, and accustoming myself to a new laptop.

[16:54] *** raschipi joined
[16:54] <jmerelo> DrForr: The UK want themselves out, and now they don't want people in... Too bad.

[16:54] <jmerelo> DrForr: Good luck!

[16:54] <DrForr> Might find out in a few minutes.

[16:55] <DrForr> Or not. But thanks nonetheless.

[16:56] <DrForr> And right now wanting a portable solution to loading the correct readline library version at startup.

[16:57] <jmerelo> DrForr: better luck with the laptop. If I remember correctly, your old one was a bit the worse for wear...

[16:58] <DrForr> This one is a fancy monstrosity. If I can find a touchscreen keyboard that I like I can use this as a Linux tablet.

[16:58] <DrForr> i7 16GB RAM, 2TB hard drive.

[16:59] *** zakharyas left
[16:59] <DrForr> Fold it one way it's a laptop, fold it back it's a tablet. One of those.

[17:00] <DrForr> Well, 'is native()' can take a subroutine call, so that's a good start I guess.

[17:05] <DrForr> And it's not just me, Cro::HTTP fails in similar fashion.

[17:07] <jmerelo> DrForr: I'm afraid I lost the context for these last lines.

[17:07] <DrForr> No worries.

[17:09] <DrForr> Cro::HTTP uses a bare 'ssl' library name for the SSL library, when the actual library name is libssl.so.1.0.0, so it can't find the library it's meant to link to and fails to run tests properly.

[17:10] <DrForr> Apparently library searching semantics have changed recently, so I need to compensate.

[17:11] <sena_kun> DrForr, I believe it's not Cro, but OpenSSL.

[17:11] <DrForr> Cro::HTTP was all the farther back the stack trace I had went, I'm guessing it wasn't complete.

[17:12] <sena_kun> https://github.com/sergot/openssl/blob/master/lib/OpenSSL/NativeLib.pm6#L12

[17:12] <DrForr> Yeah, that'll do 'er.

[17:13] *** Xliff joined
[17:13] <DrForr> I'm not assigning blame, as my module has the same problem, I'm just relieved to know that it's not just me.

[17:13] <sena_kun> no problem. :)

[17:13] <DrForr> Thanks for confirming though, I appreciate the effort.

[17:14] <Xliff> m: my %a = ( a=>1, b=>2, c=>3 ); %b = ( d=>4, e=>5, f=>6 ); (%a.append: $b).gist.say

[17:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Variable '%b' is not declared‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3my %a = ( a=>1, b=>2, c=>3 ); 7‚èè5%b = ( d=>4, e=>5, f=>6 ); (%a.append: $‚ê§¬ª

[17:14] <Xliff> m: my %a = ( a=>1, b=>2, c=>3 ); my %b = ( d=>4, e=>5, f=>6 ); (%a.append: $b).gist.say

[17:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´5===SORRY!5=== Error while compiling <tmp>‚ê§Variable '$b' is not declared. Did you mean '%b'?‚ê§at <tmp>:1‚ê§------> 3 %b = ( d=>4, e=>5, f=>6 ); (%a.append: 7‚èè5$b).gist.say‚ê§¬ª

[17:14] <Xliff> m: my %a = ( a=>1, b=>2, c=>3 ); my %b = ( d=>4, e=>5, f=>6 ); (%a.append: %b).gist.say

[17:14] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´{a => 1, b => 2, c => 3, d => 4, e => 5, f => 6}‚ê§¬ª

[17:18] <DrForr> Apparently current readline is v7, I'm at v6 on the laptop so I'm actually a good test case for applying some thought to the problem. Good.

[17:20] <DrForr> And found a bug in the docs.

[17:20] <tbrowder_> .tell AlexDaniel please look at my Phase 1 and Phase 2 pages on the docs wiki. if you think the Phase 2 approach is reasonable i can start working on it after we agree on some details.

[17:20] <yoleaux> tbrowder_: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[17:21] <tbrowder_> jmerelo: ditto ^^^ to you, please

[17:21] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: OK, will do.

[17:22] <tbrowder_> any and all are welcome to edit those pages

[17:22] <DrForr> w00t, we're on the Marvel release plan now?

[17:22] <tbrowder_> *encouraged to

[17:22] * DrForr signs in as Gwenpool.

[17:23] *** raschipi left
[17:23] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: I'm OK with phase 1

[17:24] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: Hm. Maybe using issues would have been better for commenting. Not too clear how co comment here.

[17:24] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[17:25] <AlexDaniel> .

[17:25] <yoleaux> 17:20Z <tbrowder_> AlexDaniel: please look at my Phase 1 and Phase 2 pages on the docs wiki. if you think the Phase 2 approach is reasonable i can start working on it after we agree on some details.

[17:25] <tbrowder_>  i think you just edit the page

[17:25] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: main quirk is that 00-POD-CONTROL should use filenames, instead of titles, which is also unique.

[17:25] <tbrowder_> button near the top righ

[17:26] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: yep, but then it's like overstepping on someone else thoughts, and you can't really discuss by adding and reverting changes.

[17:26] <jmerelo> Anyway

[17:26] <tbrowder_> the file name is unique

[17:27] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: not too sure about phase 2. Another extension would prevent GitHub from displaying them (when that happens). I would be more for doing transformation in, well, the generation phase.

[17:27] <tbrowder_> i‚Äôll make sure that‚Äôs stated

[17:27] <jmerelo> Not sure about if it's really needed and if it really eases maintenance. You can add the group name as a tag, as in phase 1.

[17:28] * jmerelo goes afk

[17:28] <tbrowder_> why would they not show in github?

[17:28] * jmerelo comes back

[17:28] <tyil>  

[17:29] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: because the extension would be .source, not .pod6. it would not be interpreted as .pod6. Besides, perl6/doc is the biggest pool of .pod6 in all of github. Changing all of a sudden all extensions would wipe out like 90% of all .pod6 files "in the wild"

[17:29] <jmerelo> tyil: hi!

[17:29] <tbrowder_> the ease of maintenance comes from the user manually sorting the list in the control file

[17:30] <tyil> jmerelo: hi

[17:30] <tbrowder_> and not having to mod the source files internally to change order

[17:30] <tyil> how was the trip home :>

[17:30] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: couldn't we just add another tag, same as in phase 1? Title and filename are built in, groups can be used however you want...

[17:31] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: I see potential problems with having an external file with filenames and titles; namely, well, these can change, they have to be added manually... 

[17:31] <tbrowder_> the source files are transformed and written to the Language directory as ‚Äú*.pod6‚Äù files

[17:31] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: while if "group" is part of the file metadata we could basically do the same without an extra layer of files and programs.

[17:32] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: would that mean we would have whatever.pod6.source _and_ whatever.pod6 in GitHub?

[17:33] <tbrowder_> the control file can be rebuilt, but i see that ease of changing order quickly is a giant benefit, especially until

[17:34] <tbrowder_> *especially during a/tweaking phase until all are reasonably happy

[17:34] <tbrowder_> yes, both files, but only .source would be under version control

[17:35] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: but at the end of the day, what we are doing is adding :page-order to files according to the groups. Wouldn't it be easier to add :group to the files? Same information, does not need extra files, can change order...

[17:36] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: you can also have a default group if some file does not have the :group tag... 

[17:36] <tbrowder_> if you don‚Äôt like the extension idea, then designate the source directory more clearly.

[17:37] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: I'm not sure I follow you here. 

[17:37] <tbrowder_> page order also comes from the order of the files under each group

[17:37] <jmerelo> But I really have to leave now...

[17:37] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: thanks for bringing this up, will check again tomorrow...

[17:38] <tbrowder_> ok, let me show an example dir and file layout on the wiki page

[17:38] *** HaraldJoerg left
[17:40] <tbrowder_> .tell jmerelo it‚Äôs been very helpful getting your critique, and i hope i can convince you of phase 2‚Äôs utility. the wiki will be modifed before you return

[17:40] <yoleaux> tbrowder_: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[17:40] *** HaraldJoerg joined
[17:41] *** psychoslave_ joined
[17:44] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder_: hello! Trying to backlog :)

[17:44] <AlexDaniel> a lot of stuff going on

[17:47] *** vike left
[17:47] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder_: so I'm thinking‚Ä¶ currently language.html page is autogenerated, right?

[17:47] <tbrowder_> yes

[17:48] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder_: what if we try KISS instead, so create a .pod6 file for that page

[17:48] <AlexDaniel> and add some tables there manually

[17:48] <AlexDaniel> created a new page? Go there and add it to the right category

[17:49] <AlexDaniel> we can easily have a test that ensures that all pages are linked there

[17:49] <tbrowder_> um, sounds good, i got lost in trying to find the right hooks in htmlify, thanks for a sanity check

[17:55] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Test-Performance-0.2.0.tar.gz by TYIL http://modules.perl6.org/dist/Test::Performance:cpan:TYIL

[17:57] <[Coke]> I think we still want to autogen pages like that; if we use pod6 as the source instead of html, that's fine.

[17:57] <tbrowder_> hm, i think i‚Äôll do as you suggest, but autogen the pod6 table since lots of links and junk will have to be in a table (and large, complex tables are easy to mess up making them by hand). i‚Äôll try to come up with a one or two line table for a straw man.

[17:57] <DrForr> Just pushed (nxadm's) quick fix to readline onto github - I'll push to CPAN momentarily because mi6 won't let me bypass tests.

[17:58] *** pecastro joined
[17:59] <DrForr> (there may be a CLI or .ini change that lets me do that, but I didn't see it.)

[17:59] *** sarna left
[18:02] <DrForr> And pushing to CPAN now.

[18:02] *** MasterDuke left
[18:05] <DrForr> If I didn't forget the Perl6/ directory, that is.

[18:12] <tbrowder_> AlexDaniel: i looked at htmlify again, and i still believe my phase 2 is easier, at least as an iterim process until htmlify friendlier to non-chain function call folks.

[18:12] <tbrowder_> *is friendlier

[18:12] <stmuk> whatever happens with perl6/doc shouldn't break p6doc as a command line tool

[18:12] <stmuk> (which does need more love anyway)

[18:13] *** epony joined
[18:13] <AlexDaniel> tbrowder_: you sure it is easier than just rendering a language.pod6 page?

[18:13] <tbrowder_> stmuk: my proposed phase 2 shouldn‚Äôt interfere

[18:14] <stmuk> BTW I really wish the documentation (pod6) was in a different repo to the website generation code

[18:15] <buggable> New CPAN upload: perl6-readline-0.1.0.tgz by JGOFF https://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/J/JG/JGOFF/Perl6/perl6-readline-0.1.0.tgz

[18:15] <buggable> New CPAN upload: perl6-readline-0.1.1.tgz by JGOFF https://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/J/JG/JGOFF/Perl6/perl6-readline-0.1.1.tgz

[18:15] *** sarna joined
[18:15] <tbrowder_> for me i think so. the linking alone will be a pain. i already have the bulk of the filter code done.

[18:15] <stmuk> I'm currently having to ship the website generation code with star which really doesn't make any sense

[18:16] *** bdmatatu joined
[18:16] <tbrowder_> stmuk: i agree with that +++!

[18:18] <tbrowder_> that would solve the only real problem to me which is making sure authors use the actual pod source file, not the transformed one.

[18:20] <tbrowder_> is there a github internal way to copy files from one repo dir to another.

[18:20] <tbrowder_> ?

[18:20] <tbrowder_> i guess a subrepo would be the way to do that?

[18:21] <stmuk> I have used (for one file) a "git log" command to create an email type git patch and then "git am" .. I may experiment further

[18:21] <stmuk> and use a git sub-module to connect the two repos

[18:28] *** sauvin left
[18:32] *** psychoslave_ left
[18:33] *** kerframil joined
[18:46] *** vike joined
[18:47] *** kerframil left
[18:49] *** |oLa| left
[18:54] *** domidumont left
[19:00] *** molaf left
[19:12] <jmerelo> stmuk: I have seen that. How did you do it?

[19:12] <yoleaux> 17:40Z <tbrowder_> jmerelo: it‚Äôs been very helpful getting your critique, and i hope i can convince you of phase 2‚Äôs utility. the wiki will be modifed before you return

[19:12] <p6noob> You can duplicate the git repository, and delete all the pod6 from one, and all the generation programs from the other.  Then make the one a submodule of the other if you want.

[19:12] <p6noob> that will leave a full history for each set of files intact.

[19:13] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: it's useful no matter what. Also what stmuk says. There's a lot of stuff within the documentation that could be spun off somewhere else. There are several modules, for instance.

[19:13] <tbrowder_> p6noob: thnx!

[19:14] <jmerelo> It's not so simple, though

[19:14] <tbrowder_> jmerelo: i vote for some kind of repo separation

[19:15] <tbrowder_> AlexDaniel: ^^^

[19:15] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: I have this issue from some time ago https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1937

[19:15] * AlexDaniel runs away for stuff

[19:16] <jmerelo> There are several modules that should be tested, spun-off or both. After all, Pod::To::OneBigPage is only used in perl6/doc and is spun off.

[19:16] <jmerelo> Then, there's miscelaneous website-related stuff, from sources to css to HTML scaffolding, as well as the Perl-based server.

[19:17] <jmerelo> Then, there's htmlify.p6. 'Nuff said.

[19:17] <jmerelo> Then, tests and stuff. Some tests test tests, so they would have to be replicated and or split along unclear lines.

[19:18] <jmerelo> Then, util/ which is... stuff.

[19:18] <jmerelo> Ah, I forgot p6doc.

[19:19] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: baseline is, "vote for some kind of repo separation", I'm all for that.

[19:20] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: but there be dragons. Probably spinning off all modules in the lib/ would be a good place to start. We can use source filters to keep history, or stmuk_ method, which is brilliant.

[19:20] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: but see above. Just spinning off a single thing was not very well received...

[19:21] *** pmurias left
[19:24] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: come to think of it, there are too many subdirs under the main dir... Moving some stuff under html would not hurt...

[19:24] *** domidumont joined
[19:24] *** AlexDaniel left
[19:25] <jmerelo> And I just discovered this https://github.com/perl6/doc/blob/master/type-groups.json which I have no idea what it's about...

[19:25] *** domidumont left
[19:26] *** pmurias joined
[19:43] <tbrowder_> ref html dir: iv

[19:45] <tbrowder_> i always blow that dir away when i haven‚Äôt built docs in awhile, then i have to restore it. most of it is transient, though

[19:45] <tbrowder_> a pain...

[19:46] *** noganex left
[19:47] <jmerelo> tbrowder_: the "most" is a problem...

[19:48] <jmerelo> Anyway, finally going away from the keyboard. Tomorrow is going to be a long day, taking another trip that will land my bones in Japan on Thursday...

[19:48] <jmerelo> See you tomorrow.

[19:48] <lizmat> jmerelo: safe travels!

[19:48] <jmerelo> lizmat: thanks!

[19:49] *** noganex joined
[19:49] *** jmerelo left
[19:49] *** gabiruh left
[19:56] *** koto joined
[19:56] <El_Che> japan? nice

[19:56] *** p6noob left
[19:58] *** sena_kun left
[20:00] *** HaraldJoerg1 joined
[20:01] *** HaraldJoerg left
[20:02] <TimToady> „Åæ„ÅüË°å„Åç„Åü„ÅÑ„ÄÅ„ÇàÔºÅ

[20:04] *** molaf joined
[20:04] *** imcsk8 left
[20:06] <El_Che> I discovered how to catch a TimToady 

[20:11] *** imcsk8 joined
[20:15] *** psychoslave joined
[20:17] <lizmat> And another Perl 6 Weekly hits the Net: https://p6weekly.wordpress.com/2018/07/09/2018-28-introduction-to-perl-6/

[20:17] <wbn> \o/

[20:17] <timotimo> thank you lizmat 

[20:18] <lizmat> yw, timotimo 

[20:18] *** gabiruh joined
[20:19] *** sarna left
[20:35] *** psychoslave left
[20:35] <tbrowder_> jmerelo: safe travels, and enjoy your time there. destination?

[20:35] <lizmat> tbrowder_: Japan, afaik

[20:40] *** molaf left
[20:43] *** noganex left
[20:43] *** noganex joined
[20:44] *** ufobat_ left
[20:49] *** p6noob joined
[20:51] *** MasterDuke joined
[20:52] *** HaraldJoerg1 is now known as HaraldJoerg

[20:58] <tbrowder_>  where in japan?

[20:59] *** ecocode left
[21:00] *** Zoffix joined
[21:03] *** benjikun joined
[21:04] <Zoffix> lizmat++ # good weekly. Also, TIL about Hanlon's Razor :)

[21:04] <Zoffix> "Waiting for D".. ehh... I guess that will make North American teenagers chuckle? :)

[21:04] <tbrowder_> .ask jmerelo what is your final destination in Japan?

[21:04] <yoleaux> tbrowder_: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[21:05] *** skids left
[21:05] *** benjikun2 left
[21:07] <lizmat> Zoffix: perhaps  :-)

[21:10] *** HaraldJoerg1 joined
[21:11] *** HaraldJoerg left
[21:12] *** metelik left
[21:17] *** sena_kun joined
[21:19] *** koto left
[21:22] *** zachk joined
[21:22] *** zachk left
[21:22] *** zachk joined
[21:23] *** gabiruh left
[21:23] <Altreus> Is there an interval type, such that I can "change" the epoch for a given DateTime object?

[21:23] *** gabiruh joined
[21:23] <Altreus> Basically I need seconds since 2015-01-01

[21:25] *** vrurg left
[21:25] <lizmat> m: say DateTime.now - DateTime.new(2015)

[21:25] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´1531169568.538545‚ê§¬ª

[21:26] <lizmat> maybe the accuracy is a bit much  :-)

[21:27] *** MasterDuke left
[21:27] <Altreus> gosh

[21:27] <Altreus> it's just subtracted!

[21:27] <lizmat> doesn't that make sense ?

[21:27] <Altreus> oh I just found it

[21:27] <Altreus> now I know what to look for I found infix <-> in the docs!

[21:28] <Altreus> sometimes, this is how things go

[21:28] <Altreus> thanks lizmat :)

[21:28] <lizmat> m: say (DateTime.now - DateTime.new(2015)).WHAT

[21:28] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´(Duration)‚ê§¬ª

[21:29] <Altreus> How does it know whether 2015 is an epoch int or a year int?

[21:29] *** MasterDuke joined
[21:30] *** mcmillhj left
[21:30] <Zoffix> Don't think it does

[21:30] <Zoffix> m: say DateTime.now - DateTime.new: :2015year

[21:30] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´111101450.724904‚ê§¬ª

[21:31] <Zoffix> (i.e. 1-pos-arg is always epoch)

[21:31] <hobbs> yeah, you're getting the epoch flavor when you do just one int, that's why the result is 1.5 billion or so :)

[21:31] *** [Sno] left
[21:32] <Altreus> that'll be why!

[21:33] *** Xliff left
[21:33] *** sno joined
[21:33] *** Xliff joined
[21:40] *** rindolf left
[21:44] *** ecocode joined
[21:45] <Zoffix> Go toast ready. Almost complete. Got my VM killed around WebSocket point.... which probably is OK for mid-month toast

[21:46] <jnthn> I'm not sure whether I'm looking forward to seeing it or not :P

[21:46] <Zoffix> :P

[21:46] *** wamba left
[21:48] <Zoffix> buggable: toast

[21:48] <buggable> Zoffix, Between 2018.06-140-g68ed6f2 and 2018.06: 50 (4.53%) modules got burnt; 73 (6.61%) got unsucced; 383 (34.69%) out of 1104 modules appear unusable. See https://toast.perl6.party/ for details.

[21:50] <Zoffix> .tell AlexDaniel ran toaster after rescallar merge https://toaster.perl6.party/ . Google killed my VM close to the end of master's run (around WebSocket), not sure if that was the re-try-of-failures run or the very first run. I forget how these things are logged. I think the Unk/No Data are the missed modules and the Fail/Unsuccs might be real burnt toast

[21:50] <yoleaux> Zoffix: I'll pass your message to AlexDaniel.

[21:52] *** ecocode left
[21:53] <Zoffix> hehe, well, the Proxee is an easy fix. I just didn't put `is rw` on the method, because it worked without it and I thought it wasn't needed :P

[21:54] <jnthn> Yeah, I worry a lot will be caught out by the fact that Proxy decont on return is now fixed

[21:55] <jnthn> Probably I can find a way to put in bug-compat hack

[21:55] <jnthn> Probably also possible to make it only apply apply in 6.d

[21:56] <jnthn> s:2nd/apply//

[21:56] <jnthn> um, the correct behavior only in 6.d

[21:56] <Xliff> Is there anything documented on the changes coming in 6.d?

[21:57] <Zoffix> Xliff: not yet

[21:57] <Xliff> Wat?!

[21:57] <Zoffix> Xliff: the majority of them are already in though, because they're not conflicting with 6.c spec

[21:57] <Zoffix> Xliff: why the shock? :)

[21:57] <Xliff> How are devs going to be prepared for the changes?

[21:58] <Xliff> OK, so it keeps 6.c code clean, but since the PREVIEW is in, it would help if we knew what to play with.

[21:58] <Zoffix> Xliff: the devs are going to be prepared for the changes because the changes will be published before 6.d is released.

[21:59] <Xliff> OK. So no imminent timeframe, then.

[22:00] <Zoffix> Xliff: to quote the FAQ: "When is v6.d going to be released? There is no planned date, although Diwali 2018 looks to be an attractive date for a release codenamed Diwali."

[22:00] <Zoffix> m: say Date.new('2018-11-06') - Date.today

[22:00] <camelia> rakudo-moar 68ed6f2d8: OUTPUT: ¬´119‚ê§¬ª

[22:00] <Zoffix> Still 119 days until the "maybe" date

[22:00] <Xliff> Zoffix++

[22:00] *** gabiruh left
[22:01] *** natrys left
[22:02] *** HaraldJoerg1 left
[22:05] *** mcmillhj joined
[22:07] <Zoffix> briefly glancing through grep of language version conditionals, looks like the `use v6.d.PREVIEW` things are the `await` being non-blocking, `react` no longer allowing `whenever`'s from outside its dynamic scope, and a few adverbs on subnames being forbidden (`:sym<>` and `:<>` [empty key], IIRC). There's also yet-to-be written IEEE 754-2008 compliance improvement for Num / 0e0 to be -Inf/NaN/Inf, and I think

[22:07] <Zoffix> that's all the 6.d changes that are protected by a pragma

[22:08] <Zoffix> The rest of ~3000 spec commits (+about 200-500 to be committed) are non-conflicting with 6.c language

[22:10] *** mcmillhj left
[22:11] *** wamba joined
[22:12] <Xliff> jnthn?

[22:12] <Xliff> jnthn: What's the best way of getting the Request body from Cro::HTTP::Client?

[22:14] <jnthn> For what use case? The code calling the client would typically have the body already, no?

[22:16] <jnthn> You can override get-connector in a subclass of the HTTP client and supply something that interepts the bytes

[22:16] *** mcmillhj joined
[22:17] *** bdmatatu left
[22:18] *** pmurias left
[22:19] <Xliff> jnthn: OK. I will work on adding the request object.

[22:19] <Xliff> The use case? Where I can't determine why the request fails and someone asks me "How are you forming the request."

[22:20] <Xliff> And it would be nice to dump them the entire request, as sent.

[22:20] <jnthn> CRO_TRACE=1

[22:20] <Xliff> Env var?

[22:20] <jnthn> Yes

[22:20] <Xliff> Cool. Thanks.

[22:21] *** mcmillhj left
[22:24] *** ecocode joined
[22:29] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: dd96e63d96 | (Tim Smith)++ | Makefile

[22:29] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: don't repeat yourself: use ./app-start for `make run`

[22:29] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/dd96e63d96

[22:31] *** ecocode left
[22:36] *** benjikun2 joined
[22:36] *** ecocode joined
[22:36] *** kerframil joined
[22:37] *** Zoffix left
[22:40] *** benjikun left
[22:41] *** AlexDaniel joined
[22:42] <AlexDaniel> .

[22:42] <yoleaux> 21:50Z <Zoffix> AlexDaniel: ran toaster after rescallar merge https://toaster.perl6.party/ . Google killed my VM close to the end of master's run (around WebSocket), not sure if that was the re-try-of-failures run or the very first run. I forget how these things are logged. I think the Unk/No Data are the missed modules and the Fail/Unsuccs might be real burnt toast

[22:43] <AlexDaniel> huggable: toast

[22:43] <huggable> AlexDaniel, nothing found

[22:43] <AlexDaniel> huggable: toaster

[22:43] <huggable> AlexDaniel, nothing found

[22:43] <AlexDaniel> holy shit that's a lot of failures

[22:44] <AlexDaniel> but actually maybe not that many

[22:44] <AlexDaniel> just that some very popular modules are broken

[22:44] <AlexDaniel> like XML

[22:45] <AlexDaniel> I'll check it tomorrow, I think

[22:47] *** gabiruh joined
[22:56] <AlexDaniel> Zoffix++

[22:56] <wbn> oh, why does the toasting VM get killed?

[22:58] <timotimo> because it's a cheap vm

[22:59] <timotimo> they take less money, but they don't guarantee it'll keep running

[22:59] <timotimo> so if demand goes up from "paying" customers, they'll kill your cheap vm to make performance available

[23:00] *** mcmillhj joined
[23:00] <wbn> nod

[23:02] *** eliasr joined
[23:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 979f7f93bc | (Tim Smith)++ | doc/Language/101-basics.pod6

[23:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fix Pod formatting, whitespace in Language/101-basics

[23:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/979f7f93bc

[23:04] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/101-basics

[23:05] *** mcmillhj left
[23:07] *** pecastro left
[23:10] *** mcmillhj joined
[23:17] *** mcmillhj left
[23:20] *** vrurg joined
[23:22] *** Schepeers left
[23:23] *** Schepeers joined
[23:23] *** gabiruh left
[23:24] *** lookatme left
[23:25] *** lookatme joined
[23:26] *** releasable6 left
[23:26] *** greppable6 left
[23:26] *** bisectable6 left
[23:26] *** statisfiable6 left
[23:26] *** nativecallable6 left
[23:26] *** benchable6 left
[23:27] *** benchable6 joined
[23:27] *** statisfiable6 joined
[23:27] *** bisectable6 joined
[23:27] *** nativecallable6 joined
[23:27] *** greppable6 joined
[23:27] *** releasable6 joined
[23:27] *** committable6 left
[23:27] *** speedChicken left
[23:29] *** speedChicken joined
[23:33] <tbrowder_> softmoth: can you create a make target that will kill the app process? i get it hanging onto port 3000 and can‚Äôt rerun after a ‚Äúmake run‚Äù

[23:33] <tbrowder_> it makes it hard to test doc changes

[23:37] *** gabiruh joined
[23:37] *** sena_kun left
[23:48] *** mcmillhj joined
[23:53] *** mcmillhj left
