[00:00] *** cognominal-p6 left
[00:00] *** Skarsnik left
[00:04] *** rouking left
[00:04] *** mscya joined
[00:04] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v mscya

[00:04] *** mscya left
[00:06] *** khisanth_ joined
[00:06] *** isBEKaml left
[00:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v khisanth_

[00:06] *** isBEKaml joined
[00:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v isBEKaml

[00:08] *** MasterDuke joined
[00:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[00:09] *** isBEKaml left
[00:10] *** ryn1x joined
[00:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ryn1x

[00:16] *** MasterDuke left
[00:16] *** MasterDuke joined
[00:16] *** herbert.freenode.net sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[00:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[00:18] *** sftp left
[00:19] *** sftp joined
[00:19] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v sftp

[00:33] *** leont left
[00:38] *** vrurg joined
[00:39] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v vrurg

[00:42] *** ryn1x left
[01:00] *** avar left
[01:00] *** avar joined
[01:00] *** avar left
[01:00] *** avar joined
[01:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[01:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[01:31] *** rindolf left
[01:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 932b69d8d7 | (Daniel Green)++ | 25 files

[01:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: :skip-test cleanup for a bunch of X docs

[01:42] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/932b69d8d7

[01:42] <squashable6> üçïüçïüçï  First contribution by MasterDuke17++! ‚ô•

[02:06] *** vike1 left
[02:07] *** vike1 joined
[02:08] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v vike1

[02:22] <Xliff> Anyone still around...

[02:22] <Xliff> .oO( God, I hope not... it's the weekend! )

[02:26] *** Alchemy joined
[02:26] *** Alchemy left
[02:26] *** Alchemy joined
[02:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Alchemy

[02:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Alchemy

[02:28] <MasterDuke> i shouldn't be here much longer, the clocks change tonight, but the baby doesn't know about that...

[02:35] *** Bucciarati left
[02:35] *** avar left
[02:35] *** Bucciarati joined
[02:35] *** avar joined
[02:35] *** avar left
[02:35] *** avar joined
[02:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[02:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Bucciarati

[02:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v avar

[02:37] *** Alchemy left
[02:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: ddbea8cc15 | (Daniel Green)++ | 39 files

[02:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: :skip-test cleanup for the rest of the Types

[02:43] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/ddbea8cc15

[02:45] <Xliff> MasterDuke: When zef installs a module, it precompiles everything before testing and installation, correct?

[02:46] <Xliff> Is there a way to insert a custom precompilation script and have zef install the precompiled moarvm code? I have a particularly large module, and I'd like to provide the user with some feedback during the build process.

[02:46] <MasterDuke> i think so, but not 100% sure

[02:46] <MasterDuke> ^^^ that was to your first question

[02:47] <MasterDuke> and i have no idea about the second

[02:50] <Xliff> OK. Who would know the details?

[02:52] <MasterDuke> ugexe or nine most likely

[02:52] <Xliff> OK, thanks! 

[02:53] <Xliff> Enjoy the weekend!

[02:53] <Xliff> BTW - My project takes almost 20 minutes to compile o_O

[02:54] <MasterDuke> !!!

[02:55] <MasterDuke> have you tried a --profile-compile ?

[02:56] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[02:56] <Xliff> Not yet. I should, shouldn't I?

[02:56] <Xliff> I assume such would be helpful?

[02:56] <MasterDuke> you'll probably have to use the sql output

[02:56] <ugexe> if you know where to put the precompiled files then you could do it with e.g. Build.pm i suppose

[02:56] <MasterDuke> might be

[02:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[02:56] <Xliff> And that is 15m wall-clock on a 10-core VM

[02:57] <ugexe> but you'd want to generate those precomp files with Compunit::Repository::Staging probably

[02:58] <Xliff> ugexe: Well the build script I am using just does perl --stagestats -Ilib -e 'use <module>' in a predefined order, which definitely adds time due to successive executions of perl6.

[02:58] <Xliff> ugexe: What does Compunit::Repository::Staging do? Are there any writeups on using it?

[02:58] <ugexe> i take it you've figured out the  optimal build order?

[02:58] <Xliff> Yes.

[02:59] <ugexe> that is a trick people can do with their meta data provides section to improve install speed

[02:59] <Xliff> OH! You put the optimal build order in provides?

[02:59] <Xliff> I will have to fix my script. ;)

[03:00] <MasterDuke> Xliff: actually, i bet the --profile-compile will die because of ram use, unless you're on a machine with 128gb+

[03:00] <Xliff> That will bring down the compile time a little.

[03:00] <Xliff> MasterDuke: Only 32G here.

[03:00] <Xliff> And the VM uses MUCH less. I can dual boot into Linux to get as much as I can tho.

[03:00] <ugexe> CUR::Staging creates stuff that can be relocated

[03:00] <Xliff> ugexe++ 

[03:02] *** molaf left
[03:03] <ugexe> it uses the same api as CUR::Installation, and it was some of the packagers use for perl6 modules

[03:03] <ugexe> and its used by some of the^

[03:04] <Xliff> Ooh!

[03:05] <Xliff> App-wide packaging?

[03:05] <Xliff> :)

[03:07] <ugexe> you could use CURI for that as well yes

[03:08] <ugexe> the plugin repo pattern

[03:08] <ugexe> add "pattern" after anything to legitimize it

[03:08] <Xliff> The only issue would be to get the core modules into that as well.

[03:09] <Xliff> ugexe: So.... no docs? :(

[03:09] <Xliff> I guess I could dissect zef and see what's going on.

[03:09] *** ufobat_ joined
[03:10] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ufobat_

[03:11] *** jh001 left
[03:11] <ugexe> No. the "gist" of it would be something like CUR::Staging.new(prefix => "...").install($dist); mv $prefix /home/foo/bar/site

[03:12] <ugexe> with CURI you cannot do the mv $prefix ... step

[03:12] <Xliff> Ah.

[03:13] *** ufobat___ left
[03:14] *** molaf joined
[03:15] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v molaf

[03:19] *** cognominal-p6 left
[04:05] *** kurahaupo_ left
[04:12] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: thanks for trying Red! :) I‚Äôm still reading the backlog, but what did you think about it?

[04:16] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: it works on Mac... I develop Red on a Mac machine...

[04:17] *** Cabanossi left
[04:22] *** Cabanossi joined
[04:22] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Cabanossi

[04:51] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Math-Factorial-Operator-0.1.1.tar.gz by RIBNOTTER http://modules.perl6.org/dist/Math::Factorial::Operator:cpan:RIBNOTTER

[05:10] *** lizmat left
[05:26] *** khisanth_ left
[05:27] *** lizmat joined
[05:27] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[05:27] *** khisanth_ joined
[05:28] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v khisanth_

[05:39] <Xliff> Does perl6 --stagestats still go to STDOUT?

[05:40] *** fake_space_whale left
[05:44] *** poohman left
[05:48] *** molaf left
[06:16] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[06:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[06:19] *** cognominal-p6 left
[06:19] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[06:20] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[06:32] *** BooK_ left
[06:32] *** BooK_ joined
[06:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v BooK_

[07:11] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: stats

[07:11] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, I cannot recognize this command. See wiki for some examples: https://github.com/perl6/whateverable/wiki/Squashable

[07:11] <AlexDaniel> squashable6: status

[07:11] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, üçïüçï SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in ‚âà4 hours. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[07:11] <squashable6> AlexDaniel, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/44d13f70e9d8c9f29f9758b3307a72e7

[07:17] *** domidumont joined
[07:17] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[07:24] *** jmerelo joined
[07:25] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jmerelo

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 769d6d9239 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/Cool.pod6

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Adds definition + examples closes #2342

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/769d6d9239

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 08983afbf4 | (JJ Merelo)++ | 68 files

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merging changes.

[07:41] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Cool

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/08983afbf4

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 3252e9e2eb | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/Cool.pod6

[07:41] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ closed issue ‚Äúcomb definition (and pro‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2342

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Adds the missing definition, closes #2342

[07:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/3252e9e2eb

[07:47] *** SakiTW joined
[07:47] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v SakiTW

[07:50] *** SakiTW left
[07:54] *** kurahaupo joined
[07:55] *** SakiTQ joined
[07:55] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v SakiTQ

[07:55] *** SakiTQ left
[07:55] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[07:59] *** Sgeo_ joined
[07:59] *** domidumont left
[07:59] *** jmerelo left
[08:00] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Sgeo_

[08:00] *** domidumont joined
[08:01] *** jmerelo joined
[08:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[08:02] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jmerelo

[08:02] *** Sgeo left
[08:12] *** isBEKaml joined
[08:12] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v isBEKaml

[08:14] *** isBEKaml left
[08:55] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ wrote a comment on ‚Äúexplain public attributes in /typesystem‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1572#issuecomment-435652567

[08:58] *** |oLa| joined
[08:58] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v |oLa|

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: a59aafc161 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Type/Cool.pod6

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Changes definitions and reflows

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/a59aafc161

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 4831e9adae | (JJ Merelo)++ | 2 files

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fixes definitions and adds examples

[09:02] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Cool

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/4831e9adae

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 40cd8da5d5 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/typesystem.pod6

[09:02] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/typesystem

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Minor grammar and reflow

[09:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/40cd8da5d5

[09:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 9ee803b081 | (JJ Merelo)++ | 2 files

[09:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Changed the "defined as"

[09:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[09:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Since it's not actually defined that way. Also clarified from comments

[09:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: in the description. Closes #1565

[09:10] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/9ee803b081

[09:10] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ closed issue ‚Äúpuzzle in class Capture'‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1565

[09:15] <Xliff> Moar build error from latest GIT --> https://paste.fedoraproject.org/paste/fcjh7H~Ubxn9l0NNLnDivA

[09:15] <Xliff> jmerelo++ # Burning the midnight oil.... at least from my standpoint.

[09:16] <jmerelo> Xliff: almost mid-morning here, 10:16 in sunny Granada, Spain. 

[09:17] <Xliff> Oooo..

[09:17] <Xliff> Wish I was there.

[09:17] <jmerelo> Xliff: you'll be very welcome :-)

[09:17] <Xliff> Way past the witching hour in Washington, DC

[09:17] <Xliff> Oh. Don't tempt me, d00d! I will couch-surf! :)

[09:19] *** yqt joined
[09:20] *** kdr22 joined
[09:20] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v yqt

[09:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kdr22

[09:21] *** lizmat left
[09:21] <jmerelo> Xliff: :-) Still on time to squash some bug in the squashathon :-)

[09:23] *** kdr21 left
[09:23] *** domidumont left
[09:27] <squashable6> üçï TisonKun++ wrote a comment on ‚Äúpuzzle in class Capture'‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1565#issuecomment-435654520

[09:27] <squashable6> üçïüçïüçï  First contribution by TisonKun++! ‚ô•

[09:31] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ wrote a comment on ‚Äúpuzzle in class Capture'‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1565#issuecomment-435654790

[09:33] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ opened issue ‚ÄúRaku in the documentation‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2443

[09:33] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ labeled issue ‚ÄúRaku in the documentation‚Äù (meta): https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2443

[09:34] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ edited issue ‚ÄúRaku in the documentation‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2443

[09:38] <Ulti> SmokeMachine: yeah its not so much about it working, its about it being installable via zef without headache

[09:39] <Ulti> SmokeMachine: there is a blocking bug in HEAD for me with Red around circular dependencies I put in an isssue

[09:40] <Ulti> I've also found perhaps the only tool in existence that tries to do trans os/distro package searches https://github.com/whohas/whohas its a bit out of date so might pinch some of the major ideas and port to Perl 6

[09:40] *** domidumont joined
[09:41] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domidumont

[09:50] *** SakiTW joined
[09:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v SakiTW

[09:56] *** rindolf joined
[09:56] <Xliff> Util: Do you know anything about roles?

[09:56] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ wrote a comment on ‚Äú$COLON$COLON links are busted‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1382#issuecomment-435656250

[09:56] <Xliff> I might need your and lizmat's help to solve an issue.

[09:57] <Xliff> Also, current rakudo on git does not seem buildable.

[09:57] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v rindolf

[09:57] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ wrote a comment on ‚ÄúLots of broken links, in‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/561#issuecomment-435656303

[09:58] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ labeled issue ‚Äú$*REPO and CompUnit::Rep‚Ä¶‚Äù (big): https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/502

[09:59] <squashable6> üçï TisonKun++ wrote a comment on ‚Äúpuzzle in class Capture'‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1565#issuecomment-435656441

[10:02] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ wrote a comment on ‚Äúpuzzle in class Capture'‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1565#issuecomment-435656585

[10:04] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ wrote a comment on ‚ÄúAvoid repetitions in documentation‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1924#issuecomment-435656684

[10:04] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: JJ self-unassigned Document < ‚Ä¶ > lists on the regex page https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1857

[10:06] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[10:06] <squashable6> jmerelo, üçïüçï SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in ‚âà1 hour. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[10:06] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/7c21790aa3a13331448648233ac7fe85

[10:06] * jmerelo goes AFK. Do stuff!

[10:10] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: strange... it was working to me... did you get the error only `use`ing Red?

[10:11] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: I‚Äôll take a look at this asap

[10:43] *** molaf joined
[10:44] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v molaf

[10:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 7ad5a087b9 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[10:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Documents hash collation, adds examples refs #1855

[10:46] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/7ad5a087b9

[10:46] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[10:49] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: a37af0a0ab | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[10:49] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Adds ;=

[10:49] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[10:49] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Also indexes it. Closes #1855

[10:49] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/a37af0a0ab

[10:49] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[10:49] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ closed issue ‚ÄúDocument %a = %a, %b and‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/1855

[10:50] <El_Che> Ulti: The cpan/zef/pip/gem deployment model is an dead end in my eyes. We need to be able to provide self contained applications like Go or Java. It may happen if Rakudo becomes relocatable.

[10:51] <El_Che> specially my experiences with gems are bad

[10:51] <jmerelo> El_Che: it's also the model of JS. And, anyway, things like Carton or Fatpack ease the difficulty of deploying.

[10:52] <jmerelo> El_Che: that does not mean that it would be great to have something like .jar for the MoarVM or be able to compile Raku to .jar for the JVM. But I don't think it's so bad as a dead end

[10:53] <El_Che> wel, it needs the runtime as well

[10:53] <El_Che> here is my app, run it, that's it

[10:54] <El_Che> Go get away with their statically compiled programs buy avoicing C libs as much as possible

[10:56] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[10:56] <squashable6> jmerelo, üçïüçï SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event in ‚âà1 hour. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[10:56] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/28777c19ef8818ad025dca6af128e171

[10:57] <El_Che> "Here is my small app. In order to run it, you need to install a big runtime, get a C compiler and the toolchain, an use a third party program to install dozens of other libs (which require other stuff I don't really know about"

[10:57] <El_Che> That's what we want to avoid in the far future

[10:59] <SmokeMachine> Ulti: this `perl6 -Ilib -MRed -e ''` doesn't give me any error...

[11:00] <SmokeMachine> neither this: perl6 examples/blog/index.p6

[11:00] <SmokeMachine> neither this: `perl6 examples/cqrs/index.p6`

[11:01] *** pmurias joined
[11:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pmurias

[11:01] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 8d9b988362 | (JJ Merelo)++ | 3 files

[11:01] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Moves op declaration to new page closes #2162

[11:01] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/8d9b988362

[11:01] <squashable6> üçï JJ++ closed issue ‚ÄúMove out the section on ‚Ä¶‚Äù: https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2162

[11:04] <pmurias> jmerelo: Aren't say desktop user js applications deployed via installers etc. instead of npm?

[11:05] <jmerelo> pmurias: like electron stuff and some such? I guess they are. They probably bundle node.js + all libraries.

[11:09] *** kst left
[11:15] <jmerelo> squashable6: status

[11:15] <squashable6> jmerelo, üçïüçï SQUASHathon is in progress! The end of the event is in 44 minutes. See https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/wiki/Monthly-Bug-Squash-Day

[11:15] <squashable6> jmerelo, Log and stats: https://gist.github.com/315b50c062734ec13b2cfc9353534fc1

[11:15] <jmerelo> Anyway. I'm done for the day. 

[11:15] <jmerelo> If you still have the time and the will, go ahead. 44 minutes are enough for a couple of contributions.

[11:17] <SmokeMachine> could someone help me please? Ulti opened this issue (https://github.com/FCO/Red/issues/65). But Im trying to reproduce but I can't... can someone try it please?

[11:17] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: 

[11:17] <jmerelo> OK

[11:17] *** lizmat joined
[11:17] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[11:20] *** rindolf left
[11:22] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: thanks!

[11:22] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: no problem :-) I get the same error here, though.

[11:23] <SmokeMachine> really?! 

[11:24] <SmokeMachine> running the tests?

[11:24] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: it's in the issue. I run them with zef test .

[11:25] <SmokeMachine> yes... running the test I got it... :(

[11:26] <SmokeMachine> how did it passed on travis?

[11:26] <SmokeMachine> thanks! ill try to fix that!

[11:27] *** lizmat_ joined
[11:27] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat_

[11:28] <SmokeMachine> if I run each test file it works... :(

[11:30] <SmokeMachine> with `prove -e 'perl6 -Ilib' t/` it works

[11:30] *** lizmat left
[11:30] <SmokeMachine> that's why travis worked

[11:30] <SmokeMachine> why zef isn't working?!

[11:35] <SmokeMachine> Ok, precompile...

[11:37] <jmerelo> Right.

[11:38] *** lizmat_ is now known as lizmat

[11:40] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 900a168a44 | (JJ Merelo)++ | doc/Language/operators.pod6

[11:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Fixes formatting

[11:41] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/900a168a44

[11:41] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/operators

[11:42] *** Cabanossi left
[11:52] *** woolfy joined
[11:52] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: could you try it again, please?

[11:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v woolfy

[11:53] <SmokeMachine> for me its working now...

[11:53] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: OK

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 001f65ca03 | (Zoffix Znet)++ | doc/Type/Proc/Async.pod6

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: [v6.d REVIEW] Document Proc::Async.command/.path/.args changes

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: .path/.args were never part of any spec, but we'll treat them as

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: if they were and are deprecated as of 6.d, with .command replacing them

[11:56] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/type/Proc::Async

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: PoV: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/45bbc9465c

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Propspec: https://github.com/perl6/roast/commit/51639a8efe

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Closes https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2444 R#2444

[11:56] <synopsebot> R#2444 [closed]: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2444 [6.d review][consistency] Inconsistency: Proc.command vs Proc::Async.path + .args

[11:56] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/001f65ca03

[11:57] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: problem now is that DBIish does not install...

[11:58] <SmokeMachine> if you manually install DBIish?

[11:58] *** woolfy left
[11:58] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: That's what I'm trying to do

[11:58] <SmokeMachine> :) thanks

[11:59] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: though, DBIish failing, not good...

[12:00] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: still error: "Method 'translate' must be implemented by Red::Driver::Mock because it is required by roles: Red::Driver"

[12:00] <SmokeMachine> really?! on test?

[12:00] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: will open an issue

[12:01] <SmokeMachine> hum?! what's your raku version?

[12:01] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: ^^

[12:02] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: https://github.com/FCO/Red/issues/67

[12:04] *** rindolf joined
[12:05] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: I think its working with this: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/commit/fd5d5bdfb97930cfae1f9b2572d2ab6eea7ca92f

[12:05] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v rindolf

[12:05] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: compiling 2018.10 right now...

[12:06] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: Im removing the dependency of that commit...

[12:09] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: done

[12:10] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: installing modules for 2018.10 now...

[12:12] *** leont joined
[12:12] <SmokeMachine> (sorry, Ill have to run afk... I have to take my daughter to her gin√°stica presentation...)

[12:12] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: have fun!

[12:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v leont

[12:13] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: but please, let me know if that worked!

[12:13] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: it worked with 2018.10

[12:13] <SmokeMachine> great! thanks!

[12:13] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: thank you very much!

[12:14] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: no problem, my pleasure. You go now!!!

[12:35] *** kensanata joined
[12:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kensanata

[12:39] *** kdr22 is now known as kdr2

[12:45] *** dct joined
[12:45] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v dct

[12:45] *** kylese joined
[12:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kylese

[12:47] *** dct left
[12:49] *** dct joined
[12:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v dct

[13:04] *** dct left
[13:12] *** SakiTW left
[13:13] *** SakiTW joined
[13:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v SakiTW

[13:16] *** kensanata left
[13:17] <Altreus> I'm trying to prevent concurrent calls to a method from spawning concurrent HTTP requests by setting a Promise on the object and then unsetting it in the handler: $!p = start { ... $!p = Promise };

[13:17] <Altreus> Is this terrible?

[13:18] <jmerelo> Altreus: you're assigning a value to the same variable in the definition of the variable?

[13:19] <Altreus> there's blocking code in the ...

[13:19] <Altreus> oh, the start{} returns somemthing else

[13:19] <Altreus> I'll post the real example

[13:19] *** Zoffix joined
[13:19] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[13:19] <jmerelo> Altreus: and it's assigned to $!p

[13:19] <Zoffix> Altreus: BTW, are you aware of OO::Monitors? It does the whole "one method call at a time across threads" thing

[13:19] <Zoffix> eco: OO::Monitors

[13:19] <buggable> Zoffix, OO::Monitors 'Objects with mutual exclusion and condition variables': http://modules.perl6.org/dist/OO::Monitors:github:Jonathan%20Worthington

[13:20] <Altreus> hmm that might be good

[13:22] <Altreus> here's the method I was asking about, for possibly academic reasons

[13:22] <Altreus> https://github.com/shuppet/p6-api-discord/commit/ac47757038251549410491898b0d0488670daa92

[13:27] <Altreus> IIUC, I could create a monitor object instead of a promise and ask that to do the work

[13:28] <Altreus> the synopsis on that github project doesn't really tell me how to use it, mind you

[13:28] <Altreus> Those methods in that monitor don't appear to be actually demonstrating the concept

[13:29] <Zoffix> Altreus: you just `use OO::Monitors` and declare your class with `monitor` instead of `class` keyword

[13:29] <Zoffix> The magic happens automatically

[13:31] <Zoffix> But I was meaning you use a monitor object instead of a thing where you're trying to use a promise to mark something

[13:31] <Zoffix> Nothing needs to be marked if you are already guaaranteed methods are run one at a time across threads

[13:31] <Zoffix> (I wasn't paying a lot of attention to the problem you're trying to solve, mind you)

[13:34] <Altreus> I may be misunderstanding but it looks like the calls to the monitor will run eventually, just never concurrently

[13:34] <Altreus> I want to prevent them from running at all if any is in progress

[13:35] <Altreus> since it would be redundant to do so

[13:35] <Altreus> I wonder whether that's a use case monitors support but there's no example of how

[13:36] *** jmerelo left
[13:36] <Altreus> the other thing I want to do is, if the method is already in progress, I want to actually return the promise that's already underway

[13:37] <pmurias> .tell jmerelo yep, https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/application-distribution

[13:37] <yoleaux> pmurias: I'll pass your message to jmerelo.

[13:37] *** MasterDuke left
[13:37] *** as joined
[13:37] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v as

[13:37] *** as is now known as Guest97428

[13:38] <Altreus> the way it works is, if I do $channel.fetch-messages(50), it will fetch 50 new messages based on the ID of the last message we have. If I do it again, we don't have a new ID to start from yet, so I can either a) chain off the existing promise and do 50 more, or b) return the same 50 when we have them

[13:38] <Zoffix> Altreus: ah yeah, then monitors isn't the right thing. Monitors is the "run eventually", as you said.

[13:38] <Altreus> I just don't like the way I unset the promise once it's kept

[13:39] <Altreus> I guess I can use type a

[13:39] <Altreus> that way I can just do a then on a promise that may already have been kept

[13:41] <Altreus> Actually a) is really good because if you do fetch-messages(50) then fetch-messages(10) you end up with one promise that resolves to 50 new messages, and a second one that resolves to 60 new messages

[13:41] *** Zoffix left
[13:41] <Altreus> ok good thinking me

[13:55] *** patrickb joined
[13:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v patrickb

[13:58] *** cholcombe23 joined
[13:58] *** cholcombe23 left
[14:01] <Altreus> module search is broken :(

[14:07] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 0f2c5c3eef | thundergnat++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/traps.pod6

[14:07] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Add trap: prefix minus / method op precedence

[14:07] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/0f2c5c3eef

[14:07] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/traps

[14:15] *** Cabanossi joined
[14:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Cabanossi

[14:20] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: stmuk++ created pull request #2444: refer to Raku in FAQ

[14:20] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2444

[14:20] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: ash++ created pull request #34: Sorry I am not writing about Raku

[14:20] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: review: https://github.com/perl6/mu/pull/34

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: cc27dd33b6 | (Andrew Shitov)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | misc/perl6advent-2018/schedule

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: Update schedule

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: review: https://github.com/perl6/mu/commit/cc27dd33b6

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: fc816dac2a | (Zoffix Znet)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | misc/perl6advent-2018/schedule

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: Merge pull request #34 from ash/patch-2

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: 

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: Sorry I am not writing about Raku

[14:21] <Geth> ¬¶ mu: review: https://github.com/perl6/mu/commit/fc816dac2a

[14:25] *** molaf left
[14:27] *** ryn1x joined
[14:28] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ryn1x

[14:32] *** Zoffix joined
[14:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[14:32] <Zoffix> Can anyone successfully access https://marketing.perl6.org/ ? I'm getting "The owner of marketing.perl6.org has configured their website improperly."

[14:32] <Zoffix> NET::ERR_CERT_DATE_INVALID

[14:32] <Zoffix> crap

[14:33] <geekosaur> its security certificate expired yesterday

[14:33] <geekosaur> (quoting from chrome's "advanced" info)

[14:33] * Zoffix ssh's to update

[14:34] * moritz doens't interfere :)

[14:34] <Zoffix> moritz: oh wait!

[14:34] <Zoffix> moritz: I didn't realize you were here :)

[14:34] <Zoffix> moritz: do you have time to interfere? It wass supposed get updated automatically didn't it?

[14:35] <Zoffix> I see the docs use marketing.perl6.org as example; probably might need to be fixed too https://github.com/perl6/infrastructure-doc/blob/master/hosts/www.p6c.org.pod#ssl-certs

[14:36] <Geth> ¬¶ perl6.org: stmuk++ created pull request #120: DO NOT MERGE WITHOUT DISCUSSION

[14:36] <Geth> ¬¶ perl6.org: review: https://github.com/perl6/perl6.org/pull/120

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 59898e705a | (Steve Mynott)++ | doc/Language/faq.pod6

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: refer to Raku in FAQ

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/59898e705a

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: d9af44a828 | (Steve Mynott)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/faq.pod6

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Merge pull request #2444 from stmuk/master

[14:38] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/faq

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: refer to Raku in FAQ

[14:38] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/d9af44a828

[14:38] <moritz> Zoffix: I can take a look

[14:39] <moritz> somehow it doesn't seem to be part of the normal cert renewal

[14:46] <moritz> ...  and I seem to have managed to break all of the SSL on *.perl6.org :(

[14:46] <moritz> fuuuuuuuck

[14:48] <Zoffix> :}

[14:49] <moritz> I probably need to disable all SSL sites for a short while, get new certs, and then re-enable them again

[14:54] <moritz> ok, new cert generated

[14:54] <Zoffix> moritz++

[14:55] <moritz> and marketing.perl6.org now has a valid cert as well

[14:55] <Zoffix> Thanks.

[14:56] <moritz> Zoffix: if I cobble together a Perl 6 coding contest, would you design a small website for it?

[14:57] <Zoffix> moritz: just run it on wordpress?

[14:58] <Zoffix> moritz: I think it's a "no" from me in the near future. I want to take a bit of a break after 6.d release.

[15:00] <moritz> Zoffix: ok, understandable

[15:13] *** woolfy joined
[15:14] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v woolfy

[15:15] *** fake_space_whale joined
[15:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v fake_space_whale

[15:20] *** ryn1x left
[15:22] *** Zoffix left
[15:30] *** ryn1x joined
[15:31] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ryn1x

[15:31] <El_Che> is @perlcon trolling?

[15:32] <El_Che> https://twitter.com/perlcon/status/1059105435754602496

[15:33] <ugexe> "i think we should make a real perl 6 now that they've renamed to rakui" are they trolling? "is Perl 6 really, officially now Raku?" or them? 

[15:35] <timotimo> wasn't the renaming thing partially about getting number 6 free for perl5 to advance?

[15:35] *** ryn1x left
[15:35] <timotimo> at least there were people who wanted that

[15:35] <timotimo> since we're keeping Perl 6 as the "legal name", that won't work

[15:35] <Guest97428> No it's not trolling. It is a really interesting topic to discuss. Like it was with Perl 7 a few years ago

[15:35] *** Guest97428 left
[15:36] *** andrewshitov joined
[15:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v andrewshitov

[15:36] <El_Che> The Perl 5 and 6 tshirts were kind of painful at YAPC 2012

[15:36] <andrewshitov> sorry it was me not logged in properly. 

[15:36] *** daxim joined
[15:37] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v daxim

[15:37] *** daxim left
[15:37] *** daxim joined
[15:38] *** araraloren joined
[15:38] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v daxim

[15:38] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v araraloren

[15:39] <araraloren> rakudo.org is down ?

[15:39] <andrewshitov> https://twitter.com/perlcon/status/1059105845974364160 is the correct link to the post El_Che mentioned

[15:42] *** Zoffix joined
[15:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[15:42] <Zoffix> moritz: ping. Looks like rakudo.org now gives the default Apache page. Any idea how to fix that?

[15:42] <moritz> Zoffix: I'll take a look

[15:44] <Zoffix> Thanks.

[15:44] *** MilkmanDan left
[15:44] *** ryn1x joined
[15:45] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ryn1x

[15:45] *** tobs` joined
[15:45] *** woolfy left
[15:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v tobs`

[15:48] <moritz> Zoffix: how is rakudo.org supposed to work? is it an application server?

[15:49] <Zoffix> moritz: there's a mojolicious app running from `rakudo` user I believe. It listens to some port (3333, maybe) and apache reverse proxies to it

[15:49] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: there's not much to discuss‚Äîwe've been discussing for a year and yesterday was a final resolution to that discussion. I don't see what throwing tantrums on Perl 6 Advent project or using a Perl Conference twitter account to incite animosity in the community is going to accomplish. If you like "Perl 6" as a name, use it. It's not going away.

[15:49] <moritz> Zoffix: ah, now I think I know what happened

[15:50] *** uzl joined
[15:50] *** MilkmanDan joined
[15:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MilkmanDan

[15:51] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: people have been already using a multitude of language aliases, now they can use a single consistent one. That's literally all that's changing and your response doesn't feel proportionate to me.

[15:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v uzl

[15:51] <andrewshitov> Zoffix: You can tell all that from the conference state. You were officially invited.

[15:52] *** geekosaur left
[15:52] <andrewshitov> *stage

[15:52] <moritz> Zoffix: rakudo.org works again

[15:52] <Zoffix> \o/

[15:52] <Zoffix> moritz++

[15:53] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: why can't someone who's attending that conference say that?

[15:53] <Zoffix> There's nothing special about me. I'm just a bloke.

[15:53] <moritz> (I had installed certbot, found that it didn't work out of the box; apt-get remove --purge'd it; that blew the certificate + key files

[15:53] <Zoffix> araraloren: ^ it works now

[15:54] <moritz> then I had to disable all HTTPS sites for apache to start again

[15:54] <moritz> and the non-SSL version of rakudo.org didn't contain the reverse proxy info

[15:56] *** Zoffix left
[15:56] <moritz> 10k ways you can screw up as a hobby sysadmin, day 835

[15:56] *** zakharyas joined
[15:57] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v zakharyas

[16:00] <andrewshitov> Zoffix: "people have been already using a multitude of language aliases" is a statement similar to "on behalf of community". Who's using aliases?

[16:00] <El_Che> I do

[16:01] <El_Che> I use Rakudo if I want to avoid rolling eyes

[16:01] <andrewshitov> El_Che: are you switching to Raku now?

[16:02] <El_Che> I kind of switched to rakudo before the raku selection

[16:02] <El_Che> "#!/usr/bin/env rakudo" is mostly on the shebang for perl6

[16:02] <El_Che> raku will do

[16:03] *** Zoffix joined
[16:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[16:04] <El_Che> andrewshitov: The phrasing of the tweet didn't sound to me as an announcement or a discussion, but more tongue-in-cheek

[16:04] <Juerd> I like the name, but there are two annoying technicalities: it looks like 'rake' (Ruby's make), and it makes tab completing rakudo harder. On the other hand, it's basically a switch from tab to space to get the same result :)

[16:04] <Zoffix> andrewalker: Damian Conway was asked not to mention "Perl 6" name during his talk, and he used "Albus". I was using "Rakudo" before it was decided the final decision were going to be made on 6.d release. 

[16:05] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: 

[16:06] <araraloren> Zoffix okay, thanks :)

[16:07] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: a user saying the name was preventing them from pushing Raku to production: https://www.reddit.com/r/perl6/comments/9tws89/its_raku/e90mvye/

[16:08] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: and here's the rest of my references for all the naming dicussions. I'm sure you'll find a few more similar instances: https://temp.perl6.party/NAMING.txt

[16:08] <uzl> It's quite nice that the alias has been consolidated. Instead of people using 'Albus', "that language that is not Perl 5 but is Perl", or something else, people now has a common and alternate choice.

[16:09] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: and all these people can now use "Raku". You were not affected by those issues and like "Perl 6", well, that's the whole point of a second name instead of a full rename: you can still use "Perl 6" if you want to

[16:11] <uzl> I think that's what people miss. It's just an alias; if you feel fine using "Perl 6", use it. Else you can use "Raku".

[16:11] <Juerd> What's the correct pronunciation for "raku"? Which syllable is stressed?

[16:11] <moritz> in my mind, it's ra-koo, with stress on the first syllable

[16:12] <Zoffix> I pronounce it like the robot pronouncing French version here: https://translate.google.ca/#en/fr/Raku

[16:13] <Zoffix> Or I guess the Japanese one is the proper way: https://translate.google.ca/#en/ja/Raku

[16:13] *** Zoffix left
[16:14] <andrewshitov> Zoffix: which Damian's talk do you mean?

[16:14] <uzl> I tend to pronounce it like this: https://translate.google.ca/#auto/ja/Raku

[16:16] *** lizmat left
[16:16] *** Zoffix joined
[16:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[16:16] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: at CERN in Geneva

[16:16] *** araraloren left
[16:17] <Juerd> andrewshitov: It's referenced here: https://mappingthejourney.com/single-post/2017/11/09/episode-13-interview-with-damian-conway-designer-of-perl-6-programming-language/

[16:17] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: ''' I was giving a lecture at CERN in Geneva and I said ‚ÄúWell I really want to come and talk to about Perl 6‚Äù and they ‚ÄúWell that‚Äôs fine but if we put the name Perl in the title of the talk then I‚Äôm not going to get anyone to come along‚Äù, so I said ‚ÄúFine. I‚Äôll go and talk about this theoretical language and we called it Albus‚Äù''' 

[16:17] <Zoffix> https://mappingthejourney.com/single-post/2017/11/09/episode-13-interview-with-damian-conway-designer-of-perl-6-programming-language/

[16:18] * Zoffix forces self to leave to finalize 6.d release brochure :)

[16:18] *** Zoffix left
[16:19] *** uzl left
[16:22] *** jmerelo joined
[16:22] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jmerelo

[16:26] *** ryn1x left
[16:27] *** lizmat joined
[16:27] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[16:27] *** Sgeo__ joined
[16:28] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Sgeo__

[16:30] *** Sgeo_ left
[16:31] *** yht joined
[16:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v yht

[16:39] <ugexe> i wish we'd stop giving John Doe's opinion, who has no known place of employment, on how he cant "sneak" perl 6 into production  any weight. they are already trying to "sneak" something in -- this isn't the "production" enviroment anyone is looking for

[16:40] <ugexe> i wish people would explain what "production environment" we are losing out on

[16:41] <El_Che> ugexe: a modern production environment nowadays is often composed of microservices on containers, where more freedom is possible for the choice of languageS

[16:43] <ugexe> yes i know what it is

[16:43] <El_Che>  so, why do you dismiss it?

[16:44] <ugexe> i don't. i want to know what these production environments are that have dismissed perl6 by name

[16:44] <El_Che> I have been to a few

[16:44] <ugexe> because depending on what these environments are, i could probably care less

[16:45] <ugexe> and they are?

[16:45] <El_Che> yeah, there for the alias is not for you, and you can happily brand those project as Perl 6 instead of Raku

[16:45] *** kurahaupo left
[16:45] *** kurahaupo joined
[16:46] <El_Che> projects? Mostly in the devops space. Parts of CI, CD and the like

[16:46] <ugexe> what companies. users. size. these are what i am interested in when i hear production environment

[16:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[16:47] <ugexe> and i wasn't asking specifically about the alias. i was asking for people saying they cannot use perl6 in production because of the name to give more information

[16:47] <El_Che> where I work now (and where I use "rakudo" to build java base images) we have a 25k staff and around 150k students.

[16:49] <ugexe> so by using the raku alias you will have opened the avenue to 25k staff and 150k students that was unavailable with the name perl6?

[16:50] <El_Che> lol, no

[16:51] <El_Che> By using the "rakudo" alias (it predates raku) I run Perl 6 code on our CI infranstructure without having to see rolling eyes and sighs

[16:51] <ugexe> eye rolling and sighing is 75% of the production work i do

[16:51] <El_Che> (I run way more Go code on those projects, but It's good to use some Perl 6 as well)

[16:52] <El_Che> sure, the battle of eye rolling can be a worthy fight, but most people don't bother

[16:53] <El_Che> so in this case it would have simply meant that the perl6 code would have been go

[16:53] <El_Che> that's all

[16:56] <El_Che> so, again, there is no need to antagonize between people that want to use the Perl 6 or the Raku name

[16:56] <El_Che> everyone wants to use more Perl 6

[16:57] <ugexe> it depends on how you view it. i see this as a possible turning point as the start of perl6 funding in general. so i find this whole thing actively harmful

[16:57] <ugexe> loss of funding

[16:58] <jmerelo> ugexe: sorry, I am not following you.

[16:58] <yoleaux> 13:37Z <pmurias> jmerelo: yep, https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/application-distribution

[16:58] <El_Che> ugexe: what funding would be lost with an alias?

[16:58] <jmerelo> ugexe: ^^^ that is what I don't understand.

[16:59] <El_Che> (I don't even see what funding would be lost even with a full renaming, but that's an other discussion)

[16:59] <ugexe> nothing is immediately lost. it is the path that is being set -- that of a division of perl and perl6. that includes everything that comes with it

[16:59] *** ExtraCrispy joined
[16:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ExtraCrispy

[16:59] <ugexe> in the more immediate -- sure looks like our main private source of funding is backing off. at least with physical marketing items, but they fund lots more than that.

[17:00] <jmerelo> ugexe: the path has been set by giving Perl 6 an alias? Perl is perl... 

[17:00] <ugexe> "i think we should make a real perl 6 now that they've renamed to rakui" are they trolling? "is Perl 6 really, officially now Raku?" or them? 

[17:00] <ugexe> ^ this is the start of it

[17:00] *** MilkmanDan left
[17:01] <ugexe> that is from perl people

[17:01] <ugexe> its been 2 days

[17:01] <ugexe> the division will grow

[17:02] <jmerelo> ugexe: The thing is it's been coming for a long time. The naming debate has been there for long. Then, a name is just a name, it's an alias. And finally, it's TimToady who took that decision.

[17:02] <El_Che> We have been pushing a clusterfuck of a problem under the carpet, an alias will not fix that nor make it worse

[17:02] <ugexe> not everyone agrees it has been coming for a long time. i would say many of us got tired of debating it a long time ago, so when it got brought up for the 19th time one side was not interested

[17:03] *** ryn1x joined
[17:03] <jmerelo> ugexe: there are blog posts from at least years ago. The reddit discussion is one year old. 

[17:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ryn1x

[17:04] <El_Che> ugexe: sure, I get that. But even if you have consensus on the Perl 6 (there isn't) is does not mean the problem goes away as the other party feels like the one paying the price.

[17:04] <ugexe> so what

[17:04] <jmerelo> El_Che: I kinda agree with you here, but I'm not sure I would agree in what's "the problem"

[17:04] <El_Che> it's part of the problem

[17:04] <ugexe> i dont care that the same couple people kept pushing the same point for years. other people pushed the opposite point years earlier -- they just didn't want to continue discussing it for the 19th time

[17:05] <El_Che> the alias works in the other direction: diassociate from perl 5 in order not to pay for its reputation in some places

[17:05] <jmerelo> Still

[17:05] <ugexe> i don't want to disassociate with perl5. that is the opposite of what i want

[17:05] <lizmat> El_Che: it is my profound belief that TimToady's decision is going to be a source of division for years to come

[17:05] *** MilkmanDan joined
[17:05] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MilkmanDan

[17:06] <El_Che> ugexe: the fact that there have been "19" discussions over the years, means that there is a problem there that until it's not fixed it will keep reapearing

[17:06] <jmerelo> lizmat: we don't need another source of division...

[17:06] <El_Che> true, some people are just trolls and there is bad blood here and there

[17:06] <El_Che> but many people care about the Perl community as a whole

[17:07] <El_Che> and my point being is that an alias is not the same as the renaming

[17:07] <jmerelo> lizmat: and I deeply respect that belief, but really, I'm a bit lost here. Or very lost. 

[17:07] <lizmat> jmerelo: I share your feeling

[17:07] <El_Che> lizmat: don't you think that the division wasn't already there?

[17:07] <jmerelo> We knew an "alias" or "stage name" was coming.

[17:08] <ugexe> we only know what the loudest person keeps yelling

[17:08] <lizmat> I think the division was healing, by showing people that Perl 6 is getting closer to Perl 5 performance

[17:08] <El_Che> lizmat: I see your point, but I don't agree there (from a meta level)

[17:08] <jmerelo> Lots of people have been using "6p" or other aliases... The thing now is that we have an official one. 

[17:09] <lizmat> now we have the situation: it's got a new name, why not 10 years ago?  why not at Christmas 2015?

[17:09] <lizmat> and I can't blame them

[17:09] <El_Che> lizmat: you see it as Perl 6 being good enough to replace Perl 5 IRL, many people resent that

[17:09] *** Zoffix joined
[17:09] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[17:09] <jmerelo> OTOH, I don't appreciate people deleting comments from issues in perl6/doc

[17:10] <ugexe> its the top voted comment in a previous language naming reddit thread

[17:10] <ugexe> https://www.reddit.com/r/perl6/comments/9m2k6l/a_request_to_larry_wall_to_create_a_language_name/

[17:10] <lizmat> El_Che: and they don't resent Perl 5 being replaced by Python / Go / Haskell / whatever ???

[17:10] <El_Che> lizmat: I see how an alias can conflict with the direction you want to go, though

[17:10] <Zoffix> lizmat: weren't you eaten alive for proposing that Perl 6 is the next Perl (the community letter thing)? 

[17:11] <Zoffix> lizmat: didn't a coredev cancel a TPF grant because of harasement from the Perl 5 side?

[17:11] <jmerelo> Zoffix: that's hardly lizmat's proposal. Larry did that when it named it Perl 6, as in Perl 5++

[17:11] <lizmat> Zoffix: so?  the wolves are howling, the caravan moves on

[17:11] <Zoffix> The first healing of the division I've seen since 2015 is sri posting a positive thing about Perl 6 this morning instead of the usual stuff

[17:11] <ugexe> quit basing the general opinion on the people who yell the most

[17:12] <jmerelo> Who's sri?

[17:12] <El_Che> mojo

[17:12] <Zoffix> lizmat: so which part is the division and which part is just the wolves howling?

[17:12] <lizmat> the wolves howling was about being eaten alive

[17:12] <El_Che> some howlers would rather move to whatever lang before using Perl 6

[17:13] <El_Che> those are not our targets

[17:13] <jmerelo> Let me see if I understand what's going on here. Perl 6 is getting a new alias. It's not substituting the real name starting now, is that correct? Perl 6 is still perl 6, only we get to call it by some other name if we so want, is that correct?

[17:13] <ugexe> maybe that is all you see if you do not go to many perl conferences / events. i've seen many things, like working with CPAN guys to get perl6 modules there

[17:13] <lizmat> the division is caused by the fact that anybody not like Perl 6 can now "legitimately" say it's been renamed

[17:13] <El_Che> jmerelo: that's how I understand it, yes

[17:14] <jmerelo> lizmat: it's not been renamed. It's been plus-named.

[17:14] <Zoffix> lizmat: what gives them that legitimacy?

[17:14] <jmerelo> lizmat: or aka-named.

[17:14] <El_Che> lizmat: so what?

[17:14] <lizmat> Zoffix: how are we going call Diwali ?   Perl 6.d or Raku 6.d ?

[17:14] <ugexe> people have already stated they wish this would lead to a complete rename, so lets drop the "its only an alias" things

[17:14] <El_Che> lizmat: they would say perl6 killed perl 5 and that's why they moved to JS. So what?

[17:14] <Zoffix> lizmat: Raku Perl 6

[17:14] <ugexe> we are past discussing if its an alias, rename, or dream

[17:14] <Zoffix> lizmat: I see people who hate Perl 6 now saying it's called Raku instead of saying it's a failed piece of shit that's dead

[17:15] <lizmat> "Raku" "Raku Perl 6" "Perl 6" "Rakudo Perl 6" take your pick ???

[17:15] <ugexe> based on a few social media outlets

[17:15] <ugexe> this is what we are basing everything on

[17:15] <Zoffix> ugexe: so maybe you should stop then?

[17:15] <El_Che> anyway, the core of the aliasing is *not* helping Perl 5, but to diasociate Perl 6 from the Perl 5 reputation in some places.

[17:16] <El_Che> so it's really not about Perl 5 people compaling or cheering

[17:16] <lizmat> El_Che: that was the intent: but not the result

[17:16] <ugexe> ^

[17:16] <lizmat> the result will be that more people will want Perl 6 to be something else so that "Perl 5" can "live"

[17:16] <jmerelo> Zoffix: you mean this? https://twitter.com/kraih/status/1059095302605598720

[17:16] <Zoffix> jkramer: yes

[17:16] <El_Che> lizmat, ugexe: you're are been the most negative about it so far

[17:16] *** hami joined
[17:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v hami

[17:17] <Zoffix> jmerelo: I mean, yes

[17:17] <ugexe> yes, because as i said i feel this is actively harmful

[17:17] <lizmat> another example of what I mean: https://twitter.com/joelaberger/status/1059111357294043136

[17:17] <ugexe> so it is affecting my livelyhood

[17:17] <El_Che> known Perl 6 detractors have been very constrained

[17:18] <El_Che> Is that it? "A lovely sentiment for starting out a new language!"

[17:18] <jmerelo> lizmat: that's simply wrong. It's not a new language. 

[17:18] <El_Che> it's better than they used to say

[17:18] <Zoffix> lizmat: I have that person blocked due to the amount of Perl 6 hatred they spewed in the past. Now they're tweeting "long live #Raku". 

[17:18] <Zoffix> I'm sorry, I'm failing to see the Doom here.

[17:18] <El_Che> and don't forget, the 2 lang narrative was/is the official discourse about p5/p6

[17:18] <ugexe> because the "intent" of an alias is obviously not the result

[17:18] <jmerelo> Zoffix: you're aware that hate does not go away so easily, right? They probably still hate it. 

[17:18] *** mc-guest-34 joined
[17:18] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v mc-guest-34

[17:19] *** mc-guest-34 left
[17:19] <lizmat> Zoffix: you're exactly proving my point

[17:19] <El_Che> I am pretty sure they still hate it, but if the tweet is illustrative, it's pretty civilised

[17:19] <Zoffix> lizmat: I may have missed it then. What was the point?

[17:20] <lizmat> the point being that people who want Perl6 6 to stop existing because it is in the way of Perl 5, are using the alias as a pretext for saying that "Perl 6" should be removed from the "Perl" universe

[17:21] <El_Che> lizmat: they have been saying that for year (decades?), so what?

[17:21] <El_Che> s

[17:22] <ugexe> then why alias at all? so what right?

[17:22] <El_Che> the alias is not for people that use perl 5 

[17:22] <ugexe> maybe we should explicitly state that

[17:22] <El_Che> is an alias for people that roll their eyes when they hear Perl

[17:22] <jmerelo> lizmat: you have a point, but same as people will not stop hating because Perl 6 got a new alias, it's not going to be removed from the Perl universe for that reason... 

[17:22] <El_Che> out of the echo chamber

[17:22] <lizmat> El_Che: but it will be *USED* by people that use Perl 5

[17:23] *** hami left
[17:23] <lizmat> once something has gotten another name, it is easier to get rid of

[17:23] <El_Che> lizmat: sure. People will always find a stick to hit p6 if they want to.

[17:24] <Zoffix> lizmat: but if Raku were to be no longer in the way of Perl 5, what reason would those people want for Raku to stop existing?

[17:24] <lizmat> and Larry has just given them another one

[17:24] <Kaiepi> is raku the secondary name for perl 6 or just the name of the executable?

[17:24] *** ryn1x left
[17:24] <El_Che> lizmat: many p5 feel constrained because if p6, unable to move forward

[17:25] <ugexe> so now the alias is due to how p5 people feel?

[17:25] <El_Che> lizmat: it would be ironic if p6 would find itself in the same situation because of p5?

[17:25] <jmerelo> lizmat: Really, I appreciate your concern, and there's a lot I miss here. But I don't really see anyone shushing anyone else mentioning "Perl 6", or rejecting talk proposal in PerlCons because "Perl 6" is mentioned instead of Raku.

[17:25] <El_Che> no, I am saying, who care what they think about it, it's not for them

[17:25] <ugexe> its been 2 days. obviously you havent seen anything explicit yet

[17:25] <lizmat> El_Che: as I've said before, I believe that the way forward for Perl 5 (AS A PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE) is not with the p5p executor

[17:26] <ugexe> its the writing on the wall

[17:26] <jmerelo> I think that if we don't build trenches around names, people will just not start fighting from one to the other...

[17:26] <Zoffix> I think that's the side that's missing from this discussion: all the issues with the "Perl 6" name. The premise the very first blog post on this re-ignition of the name thing started with saying that we tried the "Perl 6" name for a year and a half and it's not working out. You can't comment on some harmful effect of the alias without having the context of problems with "Perl 6" name to go with it. I'll gladly

[17:26] <Zoffix> swallow a disgusting pill if that means I can get rid of cancer.

[17:26] <El_Che> lizmat: yes, I know, but I don't think many people share that strategy (and many resent it)

[17:26] *** ribasushi_ joined
[17:26] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ribasushi_

[17:26] <jmerelo> lizmat: but that's still the case. An alias is not going to change that.

[17:27] <ugexe> its not going to change that yes. so bringing it up as a point towards aliasing is not valid

[17:27] <Zoffix> It's not towards, it's backwards.

[17:27] <Zoffix> The time to bring up points towards was in the past ~18 months.

[17:28] <Zoffix> Instead of simply assuming that nothing will happen.

[17:28] <ugexe> stop with the patronizing bullshit. people brought up points and it was very obviously not a clear one-sided issue

[17:28] <jmerelo> Zoffix: still, the name is not going away. Perl 6 is still Perl 6. We might use Raku in some contexts, but concerns will still exist if we say "Perl 6... er... Raku"

[17:29] <Zoffix> ugexe: you just said above that you ignored it because it was for the 19th time.

[17:29] <Zoffix> You're just not happy that things aren't exactly as you want them to be, yet you're perfectly happy if things aren't exactly as other people want to be.

[17:30] *** Zoffix left
[17:30] <ugexe> you sound like donald trump

[17:31] <El_Che> let's not get there

[17:31] <jmerelo> let's really not.

[17:31] <El_Che> let's assume everyone here is discussing in good faith

[17:32] <ribasushi_> my 2c:

[17:32] <El_Che> we're not on twitter here :)

[17:32] <ribasushi_> cent #1: ugexe you know better than most that I, and possibly soon more coworkers, recently lost my job *in large part* because the perl brand is irrevocably damaged "on all sides",in large part by precisely this type of "logical successor" bickering 

[17:33] <ribasushi_> cent #2: my main side project for the past 1.5 years is to stand up an alternative CPAN mirror network, that is properly segregated from what is being worked on here. Raku does not play either way into this plan - Larry's "announcement" at a past FOSDEM + the p5p leaderhsop change is what is driving this

[17:34] <ugexe> i don't agree it has to do with perl itself. if it was then we wouldn't be hiring ~9 more perl devs

[17:35] <El_Che> ribasushi_: can you elaborate on cent 2? A cpan fork? Why?

[17:35] <jmerelo> ribasushi_: "from what is being worked on here" means "perl6-free"?

[17:37] <ribasushi_> on cent#1: shrug - time will tell ;)  on cent#2: too early to elaborate, research is still ongoing. I just wantd to state this outright now, as to not have Zoffix be hounded in several months as "see?! that's all because of you!". But yes - pm6-free among other things

[17:37] * tobs` backlogs

[17:37] <ribasushi_> and on that note - beertime &

[17:37] *** ribasushi_ left
[17:38] <El_Che> weird? pm6 is not a problem on CPAN and CPAN is not perl5's problem

[17:39] <jmerelo> El_Che: this is starting to be too much for me.

[17:39] <tobs`> jmerelo: all the things you said earlier about the alias being an alias are very accurate, but my fear is that this goes over 90% of people's heads. Raku being the "unofficial alias" is two nuances that are easily swallowed.

[17:39] <tobs`> and the Advent calendar will seamlessly mix Raku and Perl 6 as it seems

[17:40] *** molaf joined
[17:40] <jmerelo> tobs`: just because Zoffix has changed his proposals to Raku, I think. Which I don't know how far it will if the executable and everything are still called perl6

[17:40] <tobs`> fwiw, when I told people at $dayjob that I'm using "Perl 6, but it's not the next version of perl 5, but an entirely new language", their response was "k, guess you know what you're doing"

[17:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v molaf

[17:41] <tobs`> recently, when I brought up the naming change and added a few half-sentences to my explanation of what p6 is, all I got back were blank stares

[17:41] *** zakharyas left
[17:41] <tobs`> so, I kind of get the sentiment of something being "actively harmful"

[17:41] <jmerelo> tobs`: and then now we'll have to do something like start saying "perl 6" slowly and then change in mid-sentence depending on the reacting we get...

[17:41] <tobs`> granted, I should cut my explanations shorter in the future :-)

[17:42] *** Zoffix joined
[17:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[17:42] <jmerelo> And I still don't know what's going to happen. Is it going to be as easy as 3xx redirects from raku.org to perl6.org? ln -s perl6 raku? Something totally different?

[17:42] <tobs`> but that is all that's on my mind about the topic. I'm not really against it

[17:43] <Zoffix> tobs`: so don't use the explanation? Just pick one name. I had to use the same phrase as you at a local meetup and their response was "Oh yeah! Porting legacy banking code is part of my job"

[17:44] <Zoffix> 'start saying "perl 6" slowly and then change in mid-sentence'  Why?

[17:44] <Zoffix> Pick a name and use it.

[17:44] <Zoffix> We have plenty of problems without having to invent imaginary ones.

[17:45] <jmerelo> Zoffix: thing is, some people will just love the name Perl 6. Some people will hate it. That's the whole point of requesting a stage name, right? So until you know in which company you are, we should better be careful.

[17:45] <Zoffix> ribasushi: why remove Perl6 from CPAN? Isn't it just a dir inside user dirs that tools simply need to ignore? 

[17:45] *** MilkmanDan left
[17:47] <Zoffix> jmerelo: but if I read you right, you're bringing this up as a criticism against the alias. So in the non-alias world your scenario plays out by people hating Perl 6. Full stop. In fact, contrary to being a problem, an alias gives you a way out of that situation but to go as far as to say we now have to pause mid-sentence‚Ä¶ 

[17:48] <jmerelo> Zoffix: that wasn't my intention. I was actually happy about the whole thing, but it really hurts to see some people from the community get hurt because of it.

[17:48] *** cognominal-p6 left
[17:50] <Zoffix> IMO it's because they're reacting to the world two days before any official announcements about the second name occur, rather than giving this thing a chance to spread and have real effects.

[17:50] *** MilkmanDan joined
[17:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MilkmanDan

[17:52] <jmerelo> Zoffix: that commentary was done tongue in cheek. But I really don't know how's this going to really play out, and when we should use "Perl 6" and when we should use the alias

[17:53] *** noganex_ left
[17:53] *** noganex joined
[17:54] *** jmerelo left
[17:54] *** noganex left
[17:55] *** pmurias left
[17:55] *** noganex joined
[17:55] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v noganex

[17:56] <Zoffix> jmerelo: the general idea is you pick a name you believe is the better of the two and use it consistently, so there's no real "when" unless you're doing something specialist, like preparing marketing materials for the language.

[17:57] <b2gills> Altreus: Perhaps you want to use the OO::Actors module instead of OO::Monitors

[18:03] *** sftp left
[18:07] *** Zoffix left
[18:13] *** sftp joined
[18:13] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v sftp

[18:15] *** ExtraCrispy left
[18:23] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[18:24] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[18:26] *** stmuk_ left
[18:33] *** froggy_ joined
[18:33] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v froggy_

[18:52] *** Grinnz joined
[18:52] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Grinnz

[18:53] <SmokeMachine> is there a way on META6.json to say an optional dependency?

[18:57] <Grinnz> Hi, I just wanted to say thanks to Zoffix for pushing and Larry for enabling the possibility of healing the rift between our communities. I am happy to be able to refer to this language without implying the doom of my preferred language that pays my bills. And to those who are not enthralled with the idea, I just hope that you can give it some time, and remember that this is solving real problems had by real people, even if it

[18:57] <Grinnz> doesn't seem to solve anything for you. I look forward to seeing Raku stand on its own feet and no longer be held back by Perl.

[18:58] *** Grinnz left
[19:03] *** pmurias joined
[19:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pmurias

[19:10] *** MilkmanDan left
[19:15] *** MilkmanDan joined
[19:15] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MilkmanDan

[19:16] *** froggy_ left
[19:18] <pmurias> Zoffix: the big problem is how you are going to market Rakudo as a brand new language

[19:23] <pmurias> El_Che: I don't think we should give a damn what Perl 6 haters think, Perl 5 folk who like Perl 6 are the important target

[19:32] <Xliff> I'm getting this error when attempting to build rakudo: https://paste.fedoraproject.org/paste/fcjh7H~Ubxn9l0NNLnDivA

[19:34] *** Zoffix joined
[19:34] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[19:34] <Zoffix> Xliff: are you sure your MoarVM matches Rakudo version? That error looks a lot like something that was fixed .5-3 months ago.

[19:34] *** cognominal-p6 left
[19:34] *** jmerelo joined
[19:34] <Xliff> Zoffix: What's the best way to fix that?

[19:35] <Zoffix> Xliff: it's the standard behaviour, so to fix it you'd undo whatever might be causing it. Like an old MoarVM installed somewhere?

[19:35] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jmerelo

[19:35] <Xliff> I am assauming it is, since I am using rakudobrew, and MoarVM is built at the same time.

[19:35] <Zoffix> Hm. No idea then

[19:35] <Xliff> Crap! I do not want to nuke, but maybe that's the only choice. *sigh*

[19:36] <Zoffix> Xliff: how are you building it? `rakudobrew build 2018.11` or something?

[19:36] <Xliff> No. "rakudobrew build moar"

[19:36] <Zoffix> Xliff: that builds master. Try building a tested release

[19:37] *** yht left
[19:37] <Zoffix> There's R#2474 so at least something is broken on master ATM

[19:37] <synopsebot> R#2474 [open]: https://github.com/rakudo/rakudo/issues/2474 [build][‚ö† blocker ‚ö†] Build hangs on 32-bit boxes

[19:38] <Xliff> Cloning into 'moar-2018.11'...

[19:38] <Xliff> error: pathspec '2018.11' did not match any file(s) known to git

[19:39] <Xliff> that was "rakudobrew build moar 2018.11"

[19:39] <thundergnat> Hmm. Has perl6.org completely been changed over to HTTPS? https://github.com/supernovus/perl6-http-client is now failing tests that are looking for an HTTP connection.

[19:39] <Zoffix> Xliff: oh sorry, 2018.10 is the latest

[19:39] <Zoffix> thundergnat: yes, all our sites force HTTPS (have been for awhile now)

[19:40] <thundergnat> Interesting. The module installed ok as late as mid October, but no longer does.

[19:41] <thundergnat> Just needs updated tests looks like.

[19:41] <Zoffix> thundergnat: we did some fix ups today. It's possible the tests were hitting some place that still had no SSL on it

[19:41] <Xliff> OK. Going back to 2018.10 looks like it is working.

[19:42] <Zoffix> \o/

[19:42] <Xliff> Then I have another issue.

[19:42] <Zoffix> Installing all modules again, because you're using rakudobrew? :)

[19:42] <Xliff> I will gist it.

[19:42] <thundergnat> Zoffix: Ah. Makes sense. Thanks. 

[19:42] <Xliff> Zoffix: Crap! If I have to do that I may as well nuke everything and start over. That will NOT be fun.

[19:42] <Zoffix> :)

[19:43] <Zoffix> Yeah, you'll have to do it 

[19:43] <Xliff> Anyway, this was the error I was getting: 

[19:43] <Xliff> Oh. I already posted that link... nm

[19:44] <Zoffix> The "MVMHash representation requires MVMString keys" error?

[19:44] <Xliff> Zoffix: BTW - I believe congratulations are in order. Raku++

[19:44] <Zoffix> That's the one I said got fixed.

[19:44] <Zoffix> Xliff: thanks.

[19:53] <El_Che> pmurias: my point is that p5 folks are not the target at all for the alias. They all know about perl6 anyways.

[19:54] *** Zoffix left
[19:56] *** Skarsnik joined
[19:56] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Skarsnik

[19:57] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: her presentation was beautiful! :)

[19:58] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: gymnastic daughter? congrats

[19:58] <SmokeMachine> El_Che: yes, thanks!

[19:59] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: my daughters like to perform as well (ballet, musical, piano)

[19:59] <El_Che> Impressed on how they can handle the stress

[20:00] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: :-) congrats.

[20:02] <SmokeMachine> https://usercontent.irccloud-cdn.com/file/n04HjSRq/IMG_3479.JPG

[20:03] <SmokeMachine> El_Che: yes, they are stronger than we think... :)

[20:05] *** domm left
[20:05] *** domm joined
[20:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v domm

[20:07] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: what happened that made you install SQLite by hand?

[20:09] <SmokeMachine> I mean DBIish

[20:14] *** pecastro joined
[20:15] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pecastro

[20:17] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: oh, she looks happy and proud

[20:17] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: a good day!

[20:17] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[20:18] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[20:18] <Woodi> hi today

[20:19] <SmokeMachine> El_Che: yes! she is! :)

[20:19] *** cognominal-p6 left
[20:20] *** cognominal-p6 joined
[20:20] <Woodi> IMO discussing new name for Perl 6 is point less. in the day of the flaying mug there was decided that new version is needed, nothing since then changed.

[20:20] <Woodi> alias is funny thing :)

[20:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v cognominal-p6

[20:21] *** domidumont left
[20:21] <El_Che> that's part of the problem. In the beginning it looked like p6 was just the next version. Then time elapsed.

[20:21] *** elf-king joined
[20:21] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v elf-king

[20:21] <Woodi> imagine Wirth being deny to create Modula 4 becouse it introduce functional programming so will be uncompatible ::)

[20:22] <elf-king> Woodi: LOL

[20:23] <Woodi> also Perl 5 is 10 - 20 times faster and v6 is still in academic shape, IMO

[20:23] <El_Che> apple and pears kind of thing

[20:24] <Woodi> yes, but show state

[20:24] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: DBIish was what produced tests errors. Lots of them, Oracle, Pg, the works.

[20:25] <El_Che> it's unlikely p5 will get built-in concurrency and other modern stuff p6 has. But's that's ok. The competition is other languages not p5<->p6

[20:25] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: so, wasn't a Red error?

[20:25] *** user100500 joined
[20:25] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v user100500

[20:25] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: no, it was an error with a dependency install

[20:26] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: thank you for the help! :)

[20:26] <Woodi> also Perl 5 is forever inside UNIX, so have rock solid position forever

[20:26] *** fake_space_whale left
[20:26] <jmerelo> SmokeMachine: no problem. I still have a half-baked example in my directory... Red is a really good idea, and something that really helps the ecosystem. I'd love to see it fly, and will do what I can to help

[20:27] <El_Che> Woodi: like awk?

[20:27] <jmerelo> Woodi: rock solid positions have been known to crumble and disappear all of a sudden

[20:27] <Woodi> yes :) and ed

[20:27] <El_Che> Woodi: see how ruby became irrelevant in unix installs and on how python3 is supeseding 2

[20:27] <jmerelo> I just installed Debian Jessie, and it features perl 5.20 out of the box allright. It also features Python 2.7. Not long ago, there was no Python. So...

[20:28] <El_Che> rhel 8 is killing python 2

[20:28] <Woodi> Perl 5 have compatibility to systems from 1995

[20:28] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: Ill try to work faster to publish Red sooner...

[20:29] <El_Che> yes, is its strength and weakness: you pay stability with the lack of progress

[20:29] *** lizmat left
[20:29] <SmokeMachine> jmerelo: but I think Ill publish it without every single feature I've planned...

[20:29] *** jjmerelo joined
[20:30] <El_Che> that's a discussion always present in p5: which one to favour

[20:30] <Woodi> SmokeMachine: any link ?

[20:30] <El_Che> SmokeMachine: it's called agile :)

[20:30] <SmokeMachine> Woodi: of Red?

[20:30] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v jjmerelo

[20:30] <SmokeMachine> Woodi: https://github.com/FCO/Red

[20:31] <Woodi> El_Che: stability for me pls. for few next decades. some feature deprecation is ok

[20:31] <Woodi> SmokeMachine: thanx

[20:31] <SmokeMachine> El_Che: but Im afraid of not having enough features to prove the point of using it...

[20:32] *** jmerelo left
[20:32] <El_Che> Woodi: yes, that the discussion. Personally I would have loved a modern built-in OO and signatures :)

[20:32] <El_Che> and built-in multicore concurrency

[20:33] <El_Che> It would kick python out of the race :)

[20:33] <SmokeMachine> Woodi: if you could, Id love to have some comments...

[20:33] <Woodi> we all love built-in goodies :)

[20:33] <Woodi> SmokeMachine: checking :)

[20:35] <Woodi> El_Che: v5 new OO could be syntacting sugar. for now Perl OO is locked by both Perl6 and Moose :)

[20:37] <El_Che> Woodi: people have been talking for ever for adding those 2 features. THe experimental signatures pissed off a lot of people, the inclusion of OO is still in the prototype phase (not a critic there as it *is* hard to add stuff without breaking old code).

[20:37] *** kurahaupo left
[20:37] *** kurahaupo joined
[20:38] <Woodi> so maybe we need Perl 5 and 1/2 for cutting off some internals ?

[20:38] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[20:39] <Woodi> probably just a dream, no enough developers and sponsors for that..

[20:39] <El_Che> Woodi: I am under the impression that that is a very hard task to do and people are not lining up to do it

[20:40] *** ferreira joined
[20:40] <El_Che> Woodi: the most viable thing for that is lizmat's vision of speeding up perl6 so it be a target for migrating p5 code

[20:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ferreira

[20:42] <Woodi> I realy would like to have Perl5 such as it is today, just less bugs :)  same as ed, grep, awk - something that is laying around ready to use

[20:42] <El_Che> I would love to stay more versatile than that

[20:43] *** jjmerelo left
[20:44] <Woodi> would be nice :)  but probably some commercial company like RedHat or some gov is needed for that. so not very probable...

[20:44] <Woodi> we have too small globe...

[20:45] *** lgtaube joined
[20:46] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lgtaube

[20:47] <leont> El_Che: Speed up and stabilize. I think the latter is underestimated.

[20:47] <andrewshitov> I just have to admit that I am happy that I never took any serious part in Perl 6 development and was mostly an observer (while being able to force my decisions  :) It is really stupid (yes, silly and childish) to remove comments you don't like. I really hope that Perl 6 community will not let Perl 6 to die because someone reads too many marketing books.

[20:48] <El_Che> andrewshitov: about what specifically are you referring?

[20:48] *** andrewshitov left
[20:48] *** zakharyas joined
[20:48] <El_Che> leont: I agree, but in my experience p5 has been fast and stable (besides the known broken features).

[20:49] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v zakharyas

[20:49] <El_Che> leont: thing is that I expect it to stay that way, but I am not sure if new features will arrive

[20:49] *** zakharyas left
[20:50] *** zakharyas joined
[20:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v zakharyas

[20:51] *** andrewshitov joined
[20:51] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v andrewshitov

[20:51] <El_Che> 21:48 <+El_Che> andrewshitov: about what specifically are you referring?

[20:52] <andrewshitov> El_Che: to a couple of removed comments from https://github.com/perl6/doc/issues/2443

[20:53] <andrewshitov> btw, are Raku people allowed to modify Perl 6? :-D 

[20:53] <El_Che> IC, the original poster (jmerelo) didn't appreciate that eather

[20:54] <El_Che> deleted comments seems to be really gone (instead of hidden or versioned)

[20:54] <El_Che> I just see the deletion action

[20:54] <El_Che> I suspect you weren't trolling, in that case I don't see why they would be removed

[20:57] <andrewshitov> My comment was "ignore it"

[20:57] *** user100500 left
[20:58] <andrewshitov> Paul's comment was more neutral: "Perl 6 is a perfect name for it. We didn't factionalize and fracture over a name change when Perl 5 broke compatibility with Perl 4."

[20:58] *** Zoffix joined
[20:58] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Zoffix

[20:58] <Kaiepi> i've only deleted one comment before, and that's because it was blatantly wrong

[20:58] <ugexe> i found it a little funny that originally it was claimed there would be no blanket changes regading the alias. yet the next day we saw multiple people start changing rakudo/perl6 to raku

[20:58] <andrewshitov> OK who is brave to say that he deleted those two comments?

[20:59] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: well, the issue did state that alias was BDFLs decision and discussions about whether/what it should be were offtopic

[20:59] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: the name of the deleter show up to me. Are you a member of perl6 group?

[20:59] <El_Che> In case you point to Zoffix, he wasn't the one :)

[21:00] <andrewshitov> Just say who

[21:00] <ugexe>  stmuk deleted a comment from ash 7 hours ago

[21:01] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: as for "reads too many marketing books". Marketing is how I've been making a living for over a decade now, so if that comment was directed to me, it's inaccurate :)

[21:01] *** ugexe left
[21:01] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Augment-Util-0.0.2.tar.gz by DOOM https://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/D/DO/DOOM/Perl6/Augment-Util-0.0.2.tar.gz

[21:01] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Object-Examine-0.0.2.tar.gz by DOOM https://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/D/DO/DOOM/Perl6/Object-Examine-0.0.2.tar.gz

[21:01] <buggable> New CPAN upload: method-menu-0.0.2.tar.gz by DOOM https://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/D/DO/DOOM/Perl6/method-menu-0.0.2.tar.gz

[21:01] <buggable> New CPAN upload: Symbol-Scan-0.0.2.tar.gz by DOOM https://cpan.metacpan.org/authors/id/D/DO/DOOM/Perl6/Symbol-Scan-0.0.2.tar.gz

[21:01] <Zoffix> (I only read a couple of marketing books! har-har)

[21:01] <El_Che> andrewshitov: I get you're pissed off, but don't redirect your anger to everyone on the repo :)

[21:02] <andrewshitov> Zoffix: you made a few very dedicated people extremely unhappy

[21:02] <Zoffix> andrewshitov: why me?

[21:02] <andrewshitov> BYEEEEEE i will never log in here again

[21:02] *** andrewshitov left
[21:02] <Zoffix> See ya \o

[21:02] <El_Che> That was a strange reaction

[21:03] <Woodi> El_Che: are you reading my mind ? :)

[21:03] <Zoffix> Well, he does have a book collection of "Perl 6" books. I guess he feels that effort is being threatened.

[21:03] <Zoffix> That's the Andrew Shitov, author of "Perl 6 Deep Dive", and at least one other Perl 6 book

[21:03] *** Dr_Paradise joined
[21:03] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Dr_Paradise

[21:04] <El_Che> andrewshitov: in case you read this. Your complain was addressed including by the person you (wrongly) suggested deleted your comments. It was a constructive interaction. I see no need to overreact.

[21:04] *** kylese left
[21:05] <Dr_Paradise> Hello. I've read a little about SNOBOL4 in Sammet's 1969 History of Programming Languages

[21:05] <Zoffix> \o

[21:06] <Dr_Paradise> which has a data type called 'pattern' which, I think, uses a context free grammar approach (i'm not too good with the terminology) tfor string pattern matchin

[21:06] <Dr_Paradise> *matching

[21:07] <Dr_Paradise> and I've just been wondering if this could vaguely relate to the 'grammars' in Perl 6?

[21:07] <Dr_Paradise> in the sense that it looks like you're able to write context free grammars in Perl 6

[21:08] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: See how code execution works in CVE-2018-17456

[21:08] * Zoffix isn't familiar with those terms to know the answer...

[21:08] <AlexDaniel> yoleaux: thanks, but I figured it out myself

[21:08] <Dr_Paradise> and I was hoping that somebody could perhaps point me to some papers on the development of grammar in perl 6

[21:09] <Zoffix> Dr_Paradise: the old design documents are at https://design.perl6.org/ Not sure if they mention grammars tho

[21:10] <Dr_Paradise> thanks!

[21:12] <jnthn> Dr_Paradise: Since Perl 6 grammars allow the embedding of Perl 6 code within them, they're actually more powerful than context free; that said, without doing that embedding, I think context free accurately captures their expressive power.

[21:12] <yoleaux> 3 Nov 2018 20:50Z <lizmat> jnthn: looking at the HYPER() structure: I wonder whether it would be an idea to create a Hyper class that would keep the op / dwim-left / dwm-right as attributes so they wouldn't have to be passed around all of the time ?

[21:13] <yoleaux> AlexDaniel: No need

[21:14] <jnthn> Dr_Paradise: S05 in the link Zoffix gave you has details, but they're a form of Parsing Expression Grammar where tie-breaking is primarily done on a declarative prefix. In fact, the grammar language is broken up (though largely transparently to the user) into declarative and imperative constructs, the declarative bits forming a regular language.

[21:14] *** Kaiepi left
[21:15] *** Kaiepi joined
[21:15] <jnthn> We tend to say "Perl 6 grammars write your lexer for you", which is kinda true, but really means "can extract the regular bits out of the larger grammar"

[21:15] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Kaiepi

[21:18] <Dr_Paradise> jnthn: That's so interesting, thank you. I'll get to digging on this right away!

[21:21] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: uzluisf++ created pull request #2445: Properly align comments and add few more examples

[21:21] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2445

[21:21] *** elf-king left
[21:27] <El_Che> I don't get the drama and what a Perl Conference has to do with anything: https://twitter.com/perlcon/status/1059193997430849536?s=19

[21:27] *** septemclavium joined
[21:28] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v septemclavium

[21:28] <Zoffix> El_Che: that's the continuation of "<El_Che> That was a strange reaction "

[21:29] <El_Che> Is it a trantum? A easy way of for not organising it? Am i missing something beside the deleted comment (action not approved by everyone as told to him)?

[21:30] <El_Che> I must be missing something as this 8s completely non sensical to me

[21:31] *** |oLa| left
[21:32] <El_Che> The last minute volunteering was really a very nice gesture, but as I don't understand the problem I don't see what demands need to be met to unpause the preparations

[21:34] <tadzik> what is this silly drama, wtf

[21:34] <tadzik> that just makes the orgainzers look childish imho

[21:35] <tadzik> who made this decision? It sounds a lot like "my option didn't win in this debate so I'm gonna stomp the ground, turn around and act offended until someone pats my back personally"

[21:36] <tadzik> the previous tweet even makes the joke out of the debate in the first place! So what is it, a laughing matter or a subject jeopardising the biggest perl conference on this side of the pond?

[21:36] <Skarsnik> hm. could writing a disamsembler be a cool use of grammar?

[21:36] <Skarsnik> this look overkill/not adapted at all xD

[21:37] *** Cabanossi left
[21:37] *** cognominal-p6 left
[21:37] *** random_yanek left
[21:38] *** Cabanossi joined
[21:39] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v Cabanossi

[21:39] <Zoffix> tadzik: well, his prediction is that this is the end of the world as we know it. Since nothing else bad is going on, I assume he decided to stir up some shit on his own.

[21:40] <timotimo> let's hope we won't be kicked out of yapc/*pw, TPF, ...

[21:40] <El_Che> the use the pluralis maiestatis is concerning, where "we" is ash and "perl6 community" is one person. Like tadzik says it makes the orga looks unproffessional, and creates 7 certainly for people that need to arrange travel or time off...

[21:41] <marcusr> what a weird announcement :-/

[21:41] *** yqt left
[21:45] <tadzik> Zoffix: they now say that it's a business decision

[21:45] <tadzik> I don't even, I just won't respond

[21:45] *** Dr_Paradise left
[21:46] <tadzik> El_Che: yes, that's a good point

[21:46] <tadzik> do I want to plan my summer around something so seemingly fragile?

[21:47] *** shlomif joined
[21:47] <Zoffix> He even invited me in the past!

[21:48] <tadzik> Skarsnik: heh, that's an interesting idea, grammars for parsing binary :)

[21:48] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v shlomif

[21:48] <tadzik> there was this language for defining network protocols, what was that?

[21:48] <timotimo> does scapy have something for that?

[21:48] *** rindolf left
[21:48] <tadzik> iirc it was kind of like a grammar of sorts-ish

[21:48] <timotimo> or is it called scrapy?

[21:49] <tadzik> scrapy is that python thing for web scrapers, no?

[21:49] <Zoffix> Draft of contributors list for 6.d release: https://gist.github.com/zoffixznet/9e3e5619000a69e1cd844a963f4b6346

[21:49] *** beeman left
[21:49] * Zoffix hopes all the critical bugs in the contrib script have been resolved.

[21:50] *** random_yanek joined
[21:50] <Skarsnik> but this look useless to dissamble stuff, since most of the time it's just if (currentByte & instruction) process instruction/arguments, currentByte = next n bytes

[21:50] <Zoffix> Is alphabetical list better?

[21:50] <El_Che> business decision, representing a marketing alias as a firk? Ok, I've got my answer. An easy way out.

[21:50] <Zoffix> (right now it's by commits number)

[21:50] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v random_yanek

[21:51] <Skarsnik> Zoffix, there is my real name and my nickname (Sylvain Colinet)

[21:52] <timotimo> Skarsnik: btw i saw a few of your runs, at least partially :)

[21:52] <Skarsnik> runs of what? x)

[21:52] <timotimo> evermore if i'm not mistaken

[21:52] <Skarsnik> Hoo. was at the start of the year then ^^

[21:52] <timotimo> ha, yeah

[21:52] <timotimo> did you stop?

[21:53] <Skarsnik> I don't much have time/will to do serious speedrun nowaday

[21:53] <timotimo> mhm

[21:54] *** lizmat joined
[21:54] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[21:54] <Skarsnik> Need to commit time to practice then time to do runs ^^

[21:54] <Zoffix> A round of applause for top 10 contributors to 6.d release, by number of commits: (Zoffix Znet => 6004 Elizabeth Mattijsen => 4135 Jonathan Worthington => 2692 Samantha McVey => 1361 Pawel Murias => 1204 JJ Merelo => 1129 Will "Coke" Coleda => 1029 Pawe≈Ç Murias => 995 Wenzel P. P. Peppmeyer => 840 Timo Paulssen => 776)

[21:55] <tadzik> Zoffix: I think you got pmurias in there twice :)

[21:55] <tadzik> but yeah, applause!

[21:55] <Zoffix> oh yeah, good catch

[21:55] <timotimo> many of my commits were low-impact :P

[21:55] *** lizmat left
[21:57] <Zoffix> m: say 6004/365

[21:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar 00eb7b856: OUTPUT: ¬´16.449315‚ê§¬ª

[21:57] <Zoffix> .oO( I need to get a life )

[21:57] <Zoffix> m: say 6004/(3*365)

[21:57] <camelia> rakudo-moar 00eb7b856: OUTPUT: ¬´5.483105‚ê§¬ª

[21:57] *** shlomif is now known as rindolf

[21:58] *** kst joined
[21:58] *** beeman joined
[21:58] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v beeman

[21:58] <Zoffix> Fixed list, with tbrowder___ now included as 10th :) (Zoffix Znet => 6005 Elizabeth Mattijsen => 4135 Jonathan Worthington => 2692 Pawel Murias => 1984 Samantha McVey => 1361 JJ Merelo => 1129 Will "Coke" Coleda => 1029 Wenzel P. P. Peppmeyer => 840 Timo Paulssen => 776 Tom Browder => 685)

[21:59] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kst

[21:59] <Skarsnik> I could do a parser for IPS file (binary patch format) as an advent post maybe. but it's a bit trivial/short

[21:59] <[Coke]> seeing more examples cropping up with explicit 'use v6.c' in them. is this intentional?

[22:00] *** bhm left
[22:00] <Zoffix> [Coke]: what's the error?

[22:00] <[Coke]> (note that this requires special treatment at the moment for these to be tested.)

[22:00] <Zoffix> [Coke]: oh, you mean new docs examples

[22:00] * Zoffix wasn't following docs repo update

[22:00] <Zoffix> FWIW, these are the only version-controlled changes we have: https://gist.github.com/zoffixznet/40ea7db0c23b230c49fd8eeaea131f46

[22:01] <timotimo> Skarsnik: if it's trivial and/or short, maybe implement it in a second lang you're familiar with and highlight some differences; there should be ways to pad it out :)

[22:01] <Zoffix> So examples with explicit `use v6.c` should be fairly minimal

[22:01] *** septemclavium left
[22:01] <timotimo> we'll soon have $_ being "not dynamic" by default, iiuc

[22:01] <Skarsnik> I already have 2-3 implementation of that

[22:02] <Skarsnik> C/C++/C# xD

[22:02] *** tobs` left
[22:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: 35a99179ad | Coke++ | util/manage-page-order.p6

[22:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: whitespace

[22:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/35a99179ad

[22:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: e6d184789d | Coke++ | doc/Language/traps.pod6

[22:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: remove duplicate word

[22:02] <synopsebot> Link: https://doc.perl6.org/language/traps

[22:02] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/commit/e6d184789d

[22:03] <timotimo> that's the format used for romhacks?

[22:04] <Skarsnik> yeah, it's pretty dumb like : 2 bytes for size, 3 bytes for offset then data. and if size is 0, you read the next 2 bytes to repeat the next byte this new size time

[22:06] *** kerframil joined
[22:06] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kerframil

[22:07] <Zoffix> chromatic: you show up in the 6.d release commit log, but since you requested yourself left off 6.c release, I'm going to assume you wish to be excluded from 6.d as well

[22:07] <Zoffix> s/commit log/contributors list/;

[22:08] <Skarsnik> good night ^^

[22:08] <Zoffix> \o

[22:08] *** Skarsnik left
[22:09] <timotimo> gnite

[22:11] *** |oLa| joined
[22:11] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v |oLa|

[22:15] *** pmurias left
[22:15] *** pmurias joined
[22:15] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v pmurias

[22:16] <Zoffix> The list of authors as it appears in the release brochure: https://temp.perl6.party/6.d-authors.pdf

[22:16] * Zoffix hopes there are no omissions due to contrib script bugs

[22:16] <Zoffix> (context: https://rakudo.party/post/The-Missing-Contributors-of-Perl6 )

[22:17] *** zakharyas left
[22:18] *** noganex_ joined
[22:18] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v noganex_

[22:19] * Zoffix is amused "Perl 6" without nbsp decided to get slit on two lines in this paragraph of all things: https://i.imgur.com/02j79gv.png

[22:20] <timotimo> should we alsk people to also point out if they're in there multiple times?

[22:21] <timotimo> tadzik is in there twice-in-a-row

[22:21] <timotimo> once with and once without nickname in the middle

[22:21] *** noganex left
[22:21] <Zoffix> timotimo: well, the release is happening in ~5hr, so I hope people here can glance over and notice dupes, but otherwise #YOLO

[22:22] <timotimo> there's also a CC as well as a cc

[22:22] <timotimo> masak is in there once as Carl Masak and once as Carl M√§sak

[22:22] <Zoffix> Ideally, these dupes would result in people adding selves to rakudo/rakudo/CREDITS or perl6/docs/CREDITS so the script knows the dupes refer to a single human

[22:23] <Zoffix> ugh. lots of dupes :) I'm switching it to purely alphabetical ordering then, because merging dupes moves the person on the list and I don't know where to, without re-running the contrib script

[22:25] <timotimo> richard hainsworth is also finanalyst

[22:26] <pmurias> tadzik: "re win the debate", I don't think there was any sort of debate victory, TimToady just choose an alias

[22:31] *** ryn1x joined
[22:32] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v ryn1x

[22:34] <Zoffix> timotimo: updated: https://temp.perl6.party/6.d-authors.pdf

[22:35] <timotimo> OK, alphabetic now. i guess that's probably fine

[22:35] <timotimo> is it fine to just put non-ascii at the end? like the last two?

[22:36] <timotimo> (also, the comma between the last two is not easily distinguished from the characters, unless i guess you know what the character is supposed to look like)

[22:36] <Zoffix> I just did .key.fc.sort on the Bag's values, so that's proper alphabetic sorting

[22:36] <timotimo> that's fair

[22:36] <Zoffix> .sort({.key.fc}) I meant

[22:36] *** |oLa| left
[22:37] *** rindolf left
[22:37] *** MilkmanDan left
[22:39] *** kurahaupo left
[22:39] *** kurahaupo joined
[22:40] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kurahaupo

[22:41] <El_Che> Zoffix: great to hear 6.d is being released soon!

[22:42] *** MilkmanDan joined
[22:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MilkmanDan

[22:44] <Kaiepi> i can't wait for 6.d

[22:45] <Kaiepi> what other new features are there in it besides non-blocking react/await?

[22:45] <Zoffix> Draft of release brochure, if anyone wanted to check spelling/issues: https://temp.perl6.party/release.pdf

[22:45] * Zoffix relocates

[22:45] <Zoffix> Kaiepi: ^ in the brochure

[22:46] <Kaiepi> thanks

[22:48] <Kaiepi> >New 

[22:48] <Kaiepi> for

[22:48] <Kaiepi>  statement modifiers 

[22:48] <Kaiepi> hyper

[22:48] <Kaiepi> for

[22:48] <Kaiepi> , 

[22:48] <Kaiepi> race

[22:48] <Kaiepi> for

[22:48] <Kaiepi> , and 

[22:48] <Kaiepi> lazy for

[22:48] <Kaiepi> shit didn't mean to spam

[22:48] <Kaiepi> but this is neat

[22:49] <timotimo> "version by default and follow their standard release" kind of sounds like it wants another word at the end. schedule?

[22:49] <Kaiepi> lots of good stuff in there

[22:50] <Kaiepi> props to those who worked hard on it

[22:50] <timotimo> i worked soft on it

[22:50] <Kaiepi> lol

[22:51] <Kaiepi> hopefully i can get .native-descriptor for async sockets merged and functioning before 6.d gets released so i don't have to check the version of moar being used once i move my projects over to 6.d

[22:51] <timotimo> "already implemented during 6.c version period" wants a "the"?

[22:51] <Kaiepi> ?

[22:54] <timotimo> i think it reads a bit strange?

[22:54] <timotimo> "‚Ä¢ next/last/redo in a loop that collects its last statement values return Empty for the iterations they run on" - why would "redo" emit anything, though?

[22:56] <patrickb> Zoffix: I'm in the contributors PDF three times. I guess it's my fault by not using consistent git configs. "Patrick Sebastian B√∂ker", "Patrick Sebastian Zimmermann" and "Patrick Zimmermann" are all me (i changed my last name recently). "Patrick B√∂ker" is what I'm called nowadays.

[22:58] <timotimo> the more duplicates we find, the easier it will be to read the names on a printed-out version of the brochure

[23:01] *** lizmat joined
[23:01] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v lizmat

[23:04] <timotimo> do we want to spell ".first can take :$kv" as ".first can take :kv" instead? to make clear that only passing True (or a truthy value) makes a difference?

[23:04] <timotimo> open takes :out-buffer, is that a buffer size or just "buffer at all, or not?"

[23:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: Kaiepi++ created pull request #2447: Document async socket .native-descriptor

[23:05] <Geth> ¬¶ doc: review: https://github.com/perl6/doc/pull/2447

[23:05] <timotimo> may also want to have a $ in one case

[23:06] *** vike1 left
[23:07] <timotimo> there's a few places where a & is not present where it ought to for consistency:

[23:07] <timotimo> below &spurt, and &prompt there's uniprops and uniprop, symlink, and link that don't have &

[23:08] *** pmurias left
[23:08] <timotimo> there's also the atomicint operators and right below them the <=, >=, != and ‚â§, ‚â•, and ‚â† operators without the &infix:< > around them

[23:09] <timotimo> likewise on the next page the <=> operator mentioned for Complex and DateTime isn't &infix:<>'d

[23:10] <timotimo> m: say <a b c d e>.List.to

[23:10] <camelia> rakudo-moar d3f0286c3: OUTPUT: ¬´No such method 'to' for invocant of type 'Str'. Did you mean any of these?‚ê§    so‚ê§    tc‚ê§‚ê§  in block <unit> at <tmp> line 1‚ê§‚ê§¬ª

[23:11] <timotimo> "List type has .to and .from methods", i don't think that's right? perhaps just NYI and i don't know what they're supposed to do

[23:13] <timotimo> "‚Ä¢ Semaphore: control access to shared resources by multiple processes" - we may want to say "threads" instead of "processes" here?

[23:16] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:16] *** MasterDuke left
[23:16] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:16] *** herbert.freenode.net sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:16] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v MasterDuke

[23:16] <timotimo> samemark in "clarifications of edg case/coercion behaviour" probably also wants an &; same for map ("inside sunk for"), splice; are classify and classify-list refering to subs or methods?

[23:17] <timotimo> "is-deeply" wants the & in front

[23:18] *** pecastro left
[23:18] <timotimo> "defined routine" wants the &, sum ("can handle lists with junctions in them") also wants a &

[23:20] <timotimo> "dir-created" will want &dir, probably

[23:21] <timotimo> "say, note, put, print, and printf routines autothread Junctions" wants lots of &

[23:22] <timotimo> and a few lines lower, "say/note guaranteed to call .gist" also wants the &

[23:22] <timotimo> "Attempting to parametarized type constraints" - probably "to use", maybe "to parameterize type constraints"

[23:24] <timotimo> "Literal constructs put and put for throw" probably wants something made red

[23:24] <jnthn> About `.from` and `.to`, they map to .[0].from and .[*-1].to, and exist for the sake of m:g and $/.from and $/.to working

[23:26] <timotimo> ah, that's good to know

[23:27] <Zoffix> timotimo: the & thing is on purpose: `&foo` subroutine, `.foo` method call, `foo` routine available as both method and sub

[23:27] *** kdr21 joined
[23:27] <timotimo> "if you have any questions [...], you can ask a question on our help chat" wants changed, and perhaps have mailing list or other ways to contact added

[23:27] <timotimo> ah!

[23:27] <timotimo> in that case my suggestions are at least 50% bogus :)

[23:27] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v kdr21

[23:28] <timotimo> i could totally have understood that

[23:28] *** kdr2 left
[23:35] *** vike1 joined
[23:35] *** moony left
[23:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v vike1

[23:36] *** moony joined
[23:36] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v moony

[23:39] *** moony left
[23:42] *** moony joined
[23:42] *** p6bannerbot sets mode: +v moony

[23:42] *** patrickb left
[23:47] *** leont left
[23:49] <Zoffix> Kaiepi: nope, .native-descriptor is 6.e stuff. Likely to be the *first* 6.e feature tho :)

[23:52] <Kaiepi> ah, ok

[23:57] *** ryn1x left
