[00:02] <[Coke]> with the release done, someone can create the checklist commit for us to make sure we got everything in this release documented.

[00:02] <[Coke]> ... I suspect I didn't create that (i said commit, meant issue) for the past few releases. If someone could volunteer to check for those as well, I'd appreciate it

[00:12] *** librasteve_ left
[00:46] *** arkiuat left
[01:00] *** arkiuat joined
[01:05] *** arkiuat left
[01:09] *** arkiuat joined
[03:25] *** arkiuat left
[03:37] *** arkiuat joined
[03:42] *** arkiuat left
[03:51] *** arkiuat joined
[04:03] *** arkiuat left
[05:04] <Geth> ¦ doc/jubilatious1-patch-1: e6104ba505 | jubilatious1++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[05:04] <Geth> ¦ doc/jubilatious1-patch-1: Update `for` code on control.rakudoc

[05:04] <Geth> ¦ doc/jubilatious1-patch-1: 

[05:04] <Geth> ¦ doc/jubilatious1-patch-1: Current code does not work because `$_` is the invocant of `.say` within the block. Pointy block variable must match outside/inside the block, and this pull request fixes the issue.

[05:04] <Geth> ¦ doc/jubilatious1-patch-1: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/e6104ba505

[05:06] <Geth> ¦ doc: jubilatious1++ created pull request #4671: Update `for` code on control.rakudoc

[05:06] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4671

[05:12] *** kjp left
[05:14] *** kjp joined
[05:15] *** kjp left
[05:15] *** kjp joined
[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: e6104ba505 | jubilatious1++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Update `for` code on control.rakudoc

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Current code does not work because `$_` is the invocant of `.say` within the block. Pointy block variable must match outside/inside the block, and this pull request fixes the issue.

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/e6104ba505

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: d4a957c9b5 | librasteve++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Merge pull request #4671 from Raku/jubilatious1-patch-1

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Update `for` code on control.rakudoc

[08:49] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/d4a957c9b5

[08:52] *** librasteve_ joined
[11:21] *** librasteve_ left
[12:38] <[Coke]> me: "Dammit, one of those new files has a breaking test on it..." finish test run, check... oh, right, I cut a new release of raku yesterday.

[12:39] <[Coke]> I put that in to make sure we were using a current version for anything with dynamic introspection. so if your xt/ tests start failing more, upgrade your raku

[12:46] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: b6250292d8 | (Will Coleda)++ | xt/type-graph.rakutest

[12:46] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Add comment explaining why we use this

[12:46] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[12:46] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: ... because it's not for the functionality

[12:46] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/b6250292d8

[13:20] <[Coke]> https://docs.raku.org/language/pod doesn't explain numbered lists.

[13:52] *** ds7832 joined
[14:11] *** ds7832 left
[14:11] *** ds7823 joined
[14:38] *** librasteve_ joined
[15:04] *** arkiuat joined
[15:56] *** ds7832 joined
[16:48] *** librasteve_ left
[16:51] *** ds7832 left
[17:27] *** ds7832 joined
[18:15] *** librasteve_ joined
[18:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: 804f8a4ed3 | (David Schultz)++ | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: In control.rakudoc, show how topicalization with `if` can be useful, and add reference to `with`.

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: 

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: (The example is inspired by Bruce Gray's lecture 'Raku for Beginners Part 2' from TPRC 2023.)

[18:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/804f8a4ed3

[18:52] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: de0f25019c | (David Schultz)++ | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[18:52] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: remove 'else' from example, and improve text a bit

[18:52] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/de0f25019c

[18:54] <Geth> ¦ doc: schultzdavid++ created pull request #4672: In control.rakudoc, show how topicalization with `if` can be useful

[18:54] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4672

[19:14] *** ds7832 left
[20:13] *** ds7832 joined
[20:15] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: 573500112b | (David Schultz)++ | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[20:15] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: whitespace

[20:15] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/573500112b

[20:27] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: 478ea35cc4 | (David Schultz)++ | doc/Language/control.rakudoc

[20:27] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: whitespace/code formatting

[20:27] <Geth> ¦ doc/schultzdavid-patch-4: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/478ea35cc4

[20:41] *** ds7832 left
[21:07] *** sjn left
[21:08] *** sjn joined
[21:18] *** ds7832 joined
[21:19] *** coleman left
[21:21] *** coleman joined
[21:30] *** ds7823 left
[21:37] *** arkiuat left
[22:07] *** arkiuat joined
[22:27] <arkiuat> [Coke], I can probably make the checklist issues if it's just a simple matter of following your model. I'd just copy the Improvements, Additions, and Fixes out of the release announcement on https://rakudo.org/news, right?

[22:28] <arkiuat> It looks like the last one you did was for 2025.05. There are three since then that I can do, unless we want a separate checklist for 06 and 06.1 

[22:42] <arkiuat> I made issue #4673 for 2025.06; if that looks good I'll do the rest that way 

[22:42] <arkiuat> https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/4673

[22:48] <arkiuat> (and next time I'll get that directly from the rakudo changelog on github, now that I've found it)

[22:52] *** ds7823 joined
[22:54] <[Coke]> arkiuat: yup, that's it - just the bits of the changelog that might be relevant

[22:54] <[Coke]> Thanks!

[22:55] <arkiuat> got it, although I'm probably a poor judge of relevance. You can edit out anything that shouldn't be in there

[22:56] <[Coke]> Many of those can be skipped - but the easiest thing is to copy 'em all in, and whoever works on the ticket can just chck the box or delete the item if it's not worth documenting.

[22:56] <[Coke]> If you want to think about it while you're doing the cut and paste, that's fine, but if it's easier to do it en masse, happy to have them in the system and we can review as we go

[22:57] <arkiuat> Does 2025.06.1 get its own checklist issue, or should I piggy back those two fixes onto the end of the text for 2025.06 (and change the title to reflect 06 & 06.1)?

[22:57] <[Coke]> Fixes can probably be left out.

[22:57] <[Coke]> no rules, whichever is easiest

[22:57] <[Coke]> as long as things are on the todo list

[22:58] <[Coke]> arkiuat++

[22:58] <arkiuat> Okay, I'll do a checklist each for 2025.08 and 2025.10 and we can add/delete whatever later

[23:06] <[Coke]> +1

[23:06] <[Coke]> i'm surprised I didn't miss more, honestly.

[23:06] <[Coke]> thank you

[23:06] <arkiuat> you're very welcome, and thank you for getting the release out

[23:21] *** ds7832 left
[23:26] *** ds7823 left
[23:52] *** ds7823 joined
