[00:00] <[Coke]> complaints that there is an "issue issue" are not helpful. Yes, I know we have a backlog.

[00:00] <NemokoschKiwi> and that's the unironic part of the "let them come up with suggestions themselves"

[00:00] <[Coke]> we just fixed the single most important blocker to that backlog that we've had for some time, even before JJ left - getting updated content into prod was very slow, or (later) impossible.

[00:00] <[Coke]> I don't know what you mean by "suggestions"

[00:01] <[Coke]> We are now actually starting to get through the backlog.

[00:01] <[Coke]> cfa++ has done many updates recently!

[00:02] <NemokoschKiwi> why does this feel so defensive...

[00:03] <[Coke]> I am defensive. Please trust me, I've toned it down several levels before typing.

[00:03] <[Coke]> so far, your complaint itself is not actionable.

[00:04] <cfa> NemokoschKiwi: i'm not clear what you're asking?

[00:04] <[Coke]> excellent question.

[00:04] <NemokoschKiwi> I haven't opened an issue for it, though, I'm just saying. It hurts no one to acknowledge.

[00:04] <cfa> my understanding is that there are issues that have been prioritised for q1; as always, issues require volunteers to address them

[00:04] <[Coke]> acknowledge what?

[00:05] <[Coke]> That we have a large backlog? agreed.

[00:05] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/at_timezone_to_footer: df182159ec | finanalyst++ | Website/plugins/ogdenwebb/ogdenwebb-replacements.raku

[00:05] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/at_timezone_to_footer: Add time zone to creation time.

[00:05] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/at_timezone_to_footer: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/commit/df182159ec

[00:05] <NemokoschKiwi> That these issues are hard to address, and therefore are highly unlikely to be finished by any deadline.

[00:05] <[Coke]> That a newbie isn't going to be able to pick up a random ticket and work on it? agreed.

[00:06] <[Coke]> No, disagree. I specifically picked tickets that I think I can close in that timeframe even with no volunteers except for those particularly assigned to someone else.

[00:06] <NemokoschKiwi> They are mostly hard to address because it's often not clear what the reporter wants to be solved

[00:06] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: finanalyst++ created pull request #173: Add time zone to creation time.

[00:06] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/pull/173

[00:06] <[Coke]> and with those assigned to someone else, it's a request they prioritize, since this is all just volunteer work.

[00:06] <[Coke]> No, that's not true.

[00:06] <[Coke]> I specifically chose ones that I feel can be done in that time frame, and that the request is clear.

[00:06] <NemokoschKiwi> accidentally, I didn't point at a single one assigned to you

[00:07] <[Coke]> So, I disagree with your assertion. Even if you were right, your best bet to help things get done is to pick tickets that *you* think are actionable and work on those.

[00:08] <[Coke]> I would prefer you did not reach out to folks on tickets that you're not assigned to, because you have a way of coming off as confrontational, and I'd rather not have our users deal with that.

[00:08] <[Coke]> but if you want to pick one, confer with me, talk about it before talking to the user, that's fine, happy to get another volunteer.

[00:09] <NemokoschKiwi> As things stand, that would basically mean that I would be refraining from most activity

[00:09] <[Coke]> Sure.

[00:09] <[Coke]> like I said, if you want to dig through the tickets and find one you think is actionable, go for it.

[00:10] <[Coke]> if that's too much effort, I completely understand. the backlog is pretty big.

[00:10] <NemokoschKiwi> Anyway, I don't think this is the right time to talk about that. You know what is confrontational now - to act as if I just said I murdered someone, when I really just pointed out something very apparent about the nature of these issues.

[00:10] <cfa> unrelated to all this: i think my css update was noisier than it ought to have been because i have a slightly different version of sass installed

[00:10] <[Coke]> cfa - whoops

[00:10] <cfa> there were a series of whitespace changes that probably wouldn't have occurred if i had the node rather than ruby one

[00:10] <[Coke]> nope. I didn't act that way. You're overreacting.

[00:10] <NemokoschKiwi> Or you are, who knows

[00:11] <[Coke]> But please feel free to file an issue with the appropriate RSC committee.

[00:12] <coleman> cfa: what's the formatting command? we can add it to CI

[00:12] <coleman> maybe even fail the build if there's a diff (assuming we can get it to be reliable)

[00:12] <coleman> or is this literally the compiled CSS output

[00:12] <[Coke]> hard to know what's an intentional diff and what's not intentional

[00:13] <coleman> youre right. It's not really a source code formatter. It's a compiler :D

[00:14] <coleman> cfa: disregard

[00:14] <NemokoschKiwi> I'd much rather file an issue for you to chill down. All is fine; probably most of those issues won't be finished any time soon but it's not like anyone is to blame for it. Perhaps it would be good if certain knowledgeable people opened better described issues.

[00:14] <[Coke]> Open an issue about... the issues?

[00:14] <[Coke]> That will no doubt get closed as "not intended".

[00:15] <[Coke]> I mean, it depends on the ticket, but if it's the same as this conversation, I don't expect it will be actionable. Again, please feel free to surprise me.

[00:16] <cfa> re: sass, https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/issues/174

[00:16] <cfa> coleman: maybe relevant? ^

[00:17] <cfa> [Coke]: we can always diff -w

[00:17] <coleman> Perfect. Thanks!

[00:17] <coleman> cfa++

[00:17] <cfa> but yeah, this is my faul

[00:17] <cfa> fault*

[00:17] <cfa> i didn't twig that maybe the version difference resulted in spacing differences

[00:17] <NemokoschKiwi> Tbh I still don't see how it's not actionable to ask people in the core community to actually come up with a suggestion at least about the "where" part of the "write the docs"

[00:17] <cfa> if we clarify the correct version, i propose a commit that just updates the css again to reformat correctly

[00:18] <cfa> but... we ought to figure out the "green theme" issue before making any css changes

[00:18] <NemokoschKiwi> does the "green theme" still persist?

[00:19] <cfa> i defer to coleman and [Coke] 

[00:19] <coleman> I think it's probably still going to happen until we implement some sort of cache-busting strategy at build-time

[00:21] <coleman> But I suspect there's some deeper reason that cache-busting might just mask

[00:23] <[Coke]> green mode went away in less than a day

[00:23] <[Coke]> might have been a cache that finally expired, no idea.

[00:25] <[Coke]> guessing richard's stuff won't be 100% before tomorrow, so no prod rollout tonight. I also just pushed a branch to raku/doc that moves pod6 to rakudoc, but looks like I missed a commit so there's a conflict. I'll deal with that tomorrow.

[00:25] <NemokoschKiwi> anyway, so far so good, I would say. Most new issues are related to the search, some to mobile, that's not surprising

[00:25] <NemokoschKiwi> did anybody check Mastodon?

[00:25] <[Coke]> afk

[00:34] *** NemokoschKiwi left
[01:52] <Geth> ¦ doc: cfa self-assigned Document trap: `use lib` with a huge directory is super slow https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/2199

[02:33] *** rf left
[02:57] *** samebchase2 joined
[02:58] *** samebchase left
[02:58] *** samebchase2 is now known as samebchase

[03:11] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke self-assigned Change document extension from .pod6 to .rakudoc https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/3785

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 7a54ae3f3f | (Will Coleda)++ | 5 files

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: remove unused utils

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: add comments to remaining items so we know what they're for.

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Closes #3906

[04:33] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/7a54ae3f3f

[04:36] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke assigned to codesections Issue util/list-missing-methods failure https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/4223

[04:38] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke unassigned from taboege Issue Checklist for 2019.03 https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/2673

[04:38] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: a6f46aeffc | (Daniel Green)++ | CREDITS

[04:38] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Add myself to the credits

[04:38] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/a6f46aeffc

[05:33] *** melezhik joined
[05:33] <melezhik> [Coke] and the team - greate work with a rakudoc new website!

[05:41] *** melezhik left
[05:43] *** melezhik joined
[06:00] *** melezhik left
[09:10] *** sena_kun joined
[09:50] *** sena_kun left
[10:14] *** sena_kun joined
[10:18] *** sena_kun left
[10:55] *** sena_kun joined
[11:54] <sena_kun> wow, so the new website is already up

[11:54] <sena_kun> impressive!

[11:54] <sena_kun> thanks to everyone who contributed to this!

[12:08] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: Altai-man assigned to finanalyst Issue Mobile/small display optimized styling https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/issues/162

[12:36] <Geth> ¦ doc: tbrowder++ created pull request #4224: Correct the intended zero-width index entries

[12:36] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4224

[12:56] *** jjatria left
[13:01] *** jjatria joined
[14:11] <[Coke]> melezhik: I appreciate the callout, but it's mostly team and only a little [Coke]. :)

[14:12] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke unassigned from Scimon Issue Proc::Async Example needs to be modified to run on Windows 10 https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/1453

[14:12] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke self-assigned Proc::Async Example needs to be modified to run on Windows 10 https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/1453

[14:18] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke assigned to tbrowder Issue update humorous subtitle https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/4202

[14:21] <Geth> ¦ doc: coke self-assigned Differentiate clearly "version" and "release" https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/3843

[14:23] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: Altai-man self-unassigned Put “Raku” in page titles https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/issues/177

[14:36] <[Coke]> sena_kun: sorry about that, should have unassigned before transferring.

[14:36] <sena_kun> no worries

[14:41] <[Coke]> updated doc wiki (we should get those updates here, but not in #raku

[14:41] <[Coke]> not sure how to configure geth for that, or if it can.

[14:41] <[Coke]> updated language about the site (now live) and quarterly milestones (now in effect)

[14:43] *** Altai-man joined
[14:44] *** sena_kun left
[14:57] <[Coke]> monthly call coming up next weekend (10 days)

[14:57] <[Coke]> Let's go into the call with an agenda. (but let's not wait for the call to address items)

[14:58] <[Coke]> coleman: my impression is that it should be safe to push to prod, do you agree?

[15:26] *** rf joined
[15:30] <[Coke]> deployed. https://docs.raku.org/oops now working

[15:34] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: coke assigned to finanalyst Issue Create 404 page https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/issues/164

[15:48] <cfa> thanks [Coke] 

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/404-text: 04a15f556c | (Will Coleda)++ | Website/structure-sources/404.rakudoc

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/404-text: Simplify/update text for 404 page

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/404-text: 

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/404-text: Part of #164

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/404-text: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/commit/04a15f556c

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: coke++ created pull request #178: Simplify/update text for 404 page

[16:31] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/pull/178

[16:35] <[Coke]> ^^ I have, based on some email convos with Richard & Coleman, enabled "require approval" on PRs to main for doc-website.

[16:35] <[Coke]> Now that we're live, seems prudent.

[16:35] <[Coke]> Starting with mine that I just submitted.

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: ff7fcdd8bd | finanalyst++ | 6 files

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: addresses issue #162

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: 

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: - Remove git-reflog plugin altogether

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: - Remove 'generated' and `rakutm` popups.

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: - Leaving License as a popup for the time being.

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/remove_generated_rakutm: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/commit/ff7fcdd8bd

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: finanalyst++ created pull request #179: addresses issue #162

[16:54] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/pull/179

[17:06] <cfa> it looks like the css for (bullet) lists need to be updated

[17:08] <cfa> we currently have  ul { list-style: none; }

[17:08] <cfa> take a look at https://docs.raku.org/type/Signature.html#Types_of_slurpy_array_parameters, for example

[17:23] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: 1da99fc750 | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/community.pod6

[17:23] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: Update community.pod6

[17:23] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: 

[17:23] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: Remove reference to perl.meetup.com as it no longer exists

[17:23] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/1da99fc750

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ doc: finanalyst++ created pull request #4226: Update community.pod6

[17:24] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4226

[17:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: ade0e7f024 | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/community.pod6

[17:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Update community.pod6 (#4226)

[17:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[17:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Remove reference to perl.meetup.com as it no longer exists

[17:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/ade0e7f024

[17:30] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: cfa++ created pull request #180: Document the correct `sass` version, refresh CSS

[17:30] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/pull/180

[17:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-3: ec9a23baad | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/faq.pod6

[17:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-3: Update faq.pod6

[17:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-3: 

[17:34] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-3: edit the zef url so that it is recognised by modules.raku.org

[17:35] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-3: remove reference to p6doc, which is not being found there,

[17:35] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-3: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/ec9a23baad

[17:42] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: 2147d8e975 | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/modules.pod6

[17:42] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: Update modules.pod6

[17:43] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: 

[17:43] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: The example changed. So make the link work.

[17:43] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-1: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/2147d8e975

[17:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: finanalyst++ created pull request #4228: Update modules.pod6

[17:43] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4228

[17:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-4: a80750c26d | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/modules-extra.pod6

[17:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-4: Update modules-extra.pod6

[17:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-4: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/a80750c26d

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: finanalyst++ created pull request #4229: Update modules-extra.pod6

[17:45] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4229

[17:54] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-5: f5b68eb63f | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Type/DateTime.pod6

[17:54] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-5: Update DateTime.pod6

[17:54] <Geth> ¦ doc/finanalyst-patch-5: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/f5b68eb63f

[17:55] <Geth> ¦ doc: finanalyst++ created pull request #4230: Update DateTime.pod6

[17:55] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4230

[18:10] *** Altai-man left
[18:25] <[Coke]> BTW, all raku/doc PRs show as failing tests, hoping we can fix our CI in the next few weeks.

[18:26] <[Coke]> If you'd otherwise approve one of the PRs, don't let that stop you. I'm running the tests locally whenever someone commits to main and will catch out anything there before a prod push

[18:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: a575049cda | (Richard Hainsworth)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/modules.pod6

[18:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Update modules.pod6 (#4228)

[18:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[18:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: The example changed. So make the link work.

[18:29] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/a575049cda

[18:34] <Geth> ¦ doc: cfa++ created pull request #4231: Document potential performance penalties for filesystem repos (#2199)

[18:34] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4231

[18:40] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 160b0cfd87 | cfa++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | 2 files

[18:40] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Document potential performance penalties for filesystem repos (#4231)

[18:40] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[18:40] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Closes #2199.

[18:40] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/160b0cfd87

[18:43] <[Coke]> BTW, coleman - I think self merge is OK as long as someone else approved the PR. I assume you meant that a single person shouldn't submit and merge with no feedback.

[18:43] <[Coke]> cfa++

[19:17] *** sena_kun joined
[19:34] <Geth> ¦ doc: cfa++ created pull request #4232: Clarify the role of META6.json in filesystem repos

[19:34] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4232

[19:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 60c752d207 | cfa++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/traps.pod6

[19:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Clarify the role of META6.json in filesystem repos (#4232)

[19:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[19:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: Relates to #2199 and comments on #4231.

[19:44] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/60c752d207

[21:16] <coleman> [Coke] I agree

[21:42] <[Coke]> Hey, the site looks very broken.

[21:43] <[Coke]> looks like all the CSS was missing. I opened the console, did a refresh, now it's back

[21:43] <[Coke]> anyone else seeing issues?

[21:43] <[Coke]> before opening the console, I soft refreshed several times, still just plain text.

[21:48] <sena_kun> [Coke], cannot confirm

[21:54] <rf> Google still points to a lot of non .html files, for example, if you search for given on google you'll be given a dead link

[21:55] <[Coke]> non html files work now

[21:55] <[Coke]> note that https://docs.raku.org/syntax/given.html isn't there either.

[21:55] <[Coke]> Please open a ticket for that one, rf.

[21:56] <[Coke]> That's actually missing.

[21:57] <[Coke]> coleman: even if we can't get direct access to the logs yet, can you extract the 404s for us and throw them in a gist?

[21:57] <[Coke]> I imagine there's quite a few of these issues, be nice to get them fixed before we get tickets.

[22:09] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/main: 751ae087a3 | (Will Coleda)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | Website/structure-sources/404.rakudoc

[22:09] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/main: Simplify/update text for 404 page (#178)

[22:09] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/main: 

[22:09] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/main: Part of #164

[22:09] <Geth> ¦ doc-website/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/commit/751ae087a3

[22:12] <Geth> ¦ doc-website: coke assigned to finanalyst Issue Some .html files aren't being generated https://github.com/Raku/doc-website/issues/181

[22:13] <[Coke]> rf, updated the ticket and assigned it

[22:13] <[Coke]> thanks

[22:14] <rf> No problem!

[23:14] *** sena_kun left
[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 68ea242952 | (Will Coleda)++ | 2 files

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: run duplicate check on more files.

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: ... fix the bug that prompted this

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/68ea242952

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: 0f59e32295 | (Will Coleda)++ | 2 files

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: pass 'make xtest'

[23:36] <Geth> ¦ doc/main: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/0f59e32295

