[09:36] *** sena_kun joined
[10:30] *** sena_kun left
[11:11] *** sena_kun joined
[14:47] <[Coke]> coleman++ keeping us moving on the infra side

[14:48] <[Coke]> (et al., but he's here in the channel. :)

[15:41] <coleman> We have concluded the meeting. I will send an email shortly.

[15:46] <lizmat> I logged into the meeting, and there was no one there ?

[15:48] <coleman> Lizmat it was at 15:00 UTC, or perhaps you had the wrong Jitsi link

[15:49] <coleman> To prevent this in the future, we will document agendas

[15:49] <lizmat> I logged in at 15:03 UTC

[15:49] <coleman> https://github.com/Raku/infrastructure-doc/wiki/Infrastructure-Meetings

[15:49] <coleman> The link we used is https://meet.jit.si/RakuInfra

[15:49] <lizmat> fwiw, I don't think we can wait another 5 weeks before we even have a chance of a new doc site

[15:50] <coleman> It is only the meeting date; we have actions to take before then; We will document them in issues.

[15:51] <coleman> lizmat: can you give me "maintainer" status of this infrastructure-doc repo?

[15:52] <coleman> If you would like to correspond privately about it, that's cool too :)

[15:54] <lizmat> sent an invite

[16:44] *** NemokoschKiwi joined
[16:44] <NemokoschKiwi> Not to say that the infrastructure-doc repo was a lively place but so far at least one could see it

[16:53] <coleman> Unfortunately we have resolved that taking infrastructure-doc private is necessary. When it comes to IT assets, we will be handling Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and also discussing servers that can be targets for hackers.

[16:54] <coleman> Using a private repo is not the only defense, but it is a necessary step while we figure out how to work

[16:54] <coleman> I consider the privacy argument especially strong.

[16:59] <coleman> [Coke] I can report that deploying Altai-man's docs site as-is is our main goal; Although documenting existing assets and asset ownership will contribute to that as well.

[16:59] <coleman> It won't happen right away, but in the 8 months that you and I have been chatting about this, it feels like progress :)

[17:07] <lizmat> FWIW, change notices won't get pushed onto #raku anymore

[17:07] <lizmat> of the infrastructure-doc repo, that is

[17:11] <coleman> undertsood

[17:18] <NemokoschKiwi> Transparency has been a problem for a long time, please consider that as well, before "resolving" it by basically turning into some secret society

[17:19] <NemokoschKiwi> And for what it's worth, something called "infrastructure-doc" and living under the Raku organisation, does sound like something meant to communicate public manners

[17:21] <lizmat> it's not a secret society, it's a place to keep secrets

[17:22] <lizmat> and atm it allows us to move forward on getting the new doc site live

[17:23] <NemokoschKiwi> It at least didn't use to be a place to keep secrets, and the name also didn't imply that

[17:24] <lizmat> ok, we can change the name if that will make you feel better

[17:24] <NemokoschKiwi> Anyway, I'm just worried that there will be again some messy status quo that gets conserved for eternity. Infrastructure has probably never been done right.

[17:24] <NemokoschKiwi> It's vague to the point that a mere mortal wouldn't even know what it exactly is

[17:26] <lizmat> I have other worries

[17:26] <lizmat> really dinner&

[17:28] <NemokoschKiwi> Well, if one doesn't set at least the goal to get something right, why even bother...

[17:29] <NemokoschKiwi> These are not abstract things. People don't know about either the work around documentation or a bare minimum of what assets are being handled as "official Raku assets", by whom, what are the financial implications and the list could go on

[17:33] <NemokoschKiwi> It would be good for once, first communicate openly and then isolate what is critical. But at the end of the day, why even talk about this if nobody will care

[17:49] <coleman> Wow

[17:50] <coleman> NemokoschKiwi, if you'd like to discuss further, please email me at coleman@burnerbox.net

[17:50] <coleman> But these are bad vibes, please keep them to yourself. We're all trying here. :)

[17:53] <NemokoschKiwi> bad vibes you say... these "bad vibes" are caused by the apathy I see regarding anything that involves management of any sort.

[17:55] <NemokoschKiwi> People have kept it to themselves for a long enough time. The remedy is also known: those people who do hold the knowledge and access to information should start sharing it. I can write a list of questions to start with, if that helps.

[17:56] <coleman> Please do, but email it to me. I have to step away for the $DAYJOB

[17:59] <NemokoschKiwi> As you wish, good sir. üëç

[17:59] *** NemokoschKiwi left
[18:13] *** sena_kun left
[18:52] *** sena_kun joined
[23:18] *** sena_kun left
