[00:07] *** colomon joined
[00:11] <rudi_s> Hi. Just noticed the following error message when perl6 fails to open a file with open 'foo': "Failed to open file: no such file or directory". This message is not really helpful as it's not telling me which file it couldn't open. Is there a reason why the filename is not reported?

[00:11] <rudi_s> Looking at the code: src/io/syncfile.c:414 it seems to be no problem to just extend the line to also print fname as well.

[00:12] <rudi_s> Something like MVM_exception_throw_adhoc(tc, "Failed to open file %s: %s", fname, uv_strerror(req.result)); - untested.

[00:13] <rudi_s> (Might a bit problematic with non-ascii filenames though.)

[00:14] <rudi_s> Oh, and btw. just noticed, in line 407, is the %d for "Invalid open mode: %d" correct? Shouldn't this be a %s as fmode is a char * const.

[00:15] <TimToady> yeah, looks pretty LTA to me...

[00:17] <rudi_s> LTA?

[00:18] <TimToady> Less Than Awesome

[00:18] <rudi_s> Ah.

[00:18] <TimToady> sorry, a meme that's more current in #perl6 than here...

[00:19] <rudi_s> np ;-)

[00:20] <TimToady> and not surprising, often the earliest things that were implemented in moarvm are the roughest, since things have to get bootstrapped based on very primitive...er...primitives...

[00:23] <rudi_s> Just compiling the VM, is there a reason why it's not built with -Wall? Noticed quite a few warnings with -Wall ..

[00:28] <japhb> rudi_s: Because not all of the warnings have been cleaned up.  Volunteers have helped to reduce it considerably, but as yet I don't think anyone's made it build completely clean.

[00:29] <rudi_s> Would patches which cleanup -Wall warnings but provide no new features be accepted?

[00:29] <japhb> (Some people like having the annoyance of every possible warning, in order to convince them to keep it clean, but if you're starting warnings-heavy instead of warnings-clean, it's easy for people to just start ignoring the noise.  So we don't do that.)

[00:29] <rudi_s> Btw. regarding the %d vs. %s, it might be a good idea to use __attribute__((format(printf,2,3))) in a few places.

[00:29] <japhb> rudi_s: Yes, that's quite likely, as long as you do them a chunk at a time, and not some gigantic 3000 line patch.

[00:30] <japhb> (Plus, remember we want to be clean on VC++, clang, gcc, ...)

[00:31] *** colomon joined
[00:32] <rudi_s> Good to know. Might send a few patches when I have some time. - Never used VC++, does it support stuff like PRIX32 when printing uint32 and similar?

[00:45] *** colomon joined
[01:45] *** colomon joined
[02:11] <rudi_s> Is there a mailing list where I can submit the patches?

[02:15] <TimToady> we generally use pull requests on github

[02:19] *** colomon joined
[02:22] *** vendethiel joined
[02:35] *** colomon joined
[02:38] *** colomon joined
[03:17] *** colomon joined
[05:57] *** brrt joined
[06:00] *** vendethiel joined
[06:49] *** FROGGS joined
[06:52] *** Ven joined
[06:55] *** kjs_ joined
[06:59] *** Ven joined
[07:30] *** Ven joined
[07:32] *** brrt joined
[07:40] *** zakharyas joined
[08:15] *** kjs_ joined
[08:39] *** rurban_ joined
[11:44] <rudi_s> I see. I don't like github very much.

[11:45] <nwc10> you could send git-am ready patches to [email@hidden.address]
[11:45] <nwc10> er,

[11:45] <nwc10> [email@hidden.address]
[12:06] <brrt> yes, we do accept patches :-)

[12:06] <brrt> may i ask why you don't like github?

[12:17] <jnthn> The other perfectly fine workflow is to clone from github, push the repo somewhere online you *do* like, push commits to branches there, and then they can be dealt with as remotes

[12:18] <nwc10> oooh, I'd not tried that :-)

[12:18] <jnthn> Which works faster than patches

[12:18] <jnthn> Well, for me it does

[12:18] * brrt agrees with jnthn

[12:18] <brrt> you can make some really funky repo structures with remotes :-)

[12:29] <jnthn> With regard to __attribute__((format(printf,2,3))) there is no VS equivalent afaik

[12:29] <timotimo> that can be #ifdef'd, though?

[12:29] <jnthn> But also it's not clear how useful it is

[12:29] <timotimo> do i understand it correctly that that will give error messages if the ... attributes for a call don't align with printf semantics?

[12:29] <jnthn> I'm not even sure what the darn arguments mean at first guess.

[12:30] <timotimo> first argument means where the format string is, i bet

[12:30] <timotimo> because our first arg is always tc

[12:30] <jnthn> So there's as much chance of screwing up the attribute as there is of screwing up the printf, so far as I can see.

[12:30] <timotimo> The parameter string-index specifies which argument is the format string argument (starting from 1), while first-to-check is the number of the first argument to check against the format string.

[12:31] <timotimo> damn you, C, for not having named arguments!

[12:31] <jnthn> Oh, but it's on the callee, not the caller

[12:31] <jnthn> So I guess it kinda could be useful diagnostics.

[12:31] <timotimo> of course

[12:32] <timotimo> you can have attributes on callsites?

[12:32] <jnthn> No idea :P

[12:32] <jnthn> Ah, apparently there is some way in newer MSVC

[12:33] <timotimo> is that "newer than we target"?

[12:33] <jnthn> Well, guess I'm open to it; we don't have very many vararg things.

[12:33] <jnthn> Yes, but again, #if :)

[12:33] <timotimo> thank you, rudi_s, for bringing this up :)

[12:34] * jnthn is happy to introduce things that stand a chance of catching real bugs, but very wary of many things that are more ceremony and about "looking like high quality code" then actually helping

[12:35] <jnthn> That one seems to alnd on the side of "actually helps"

[12:35] <jnthn> *land

[12:43] <timotimo> well, rudi_s already found two cases of wrong format strings

[12:44] <jnthn> *nod*

[13:19] <rudi_s> brrt: Central places for everything isn't well fitted to a DVCS IMHO.

[13:19] <rudi_s> japhb: Good idea. Give me a sec.

[13:23] <brrt> i agree. on the other hand, federation is really hard to maintain

[13:23] <brrt> doable? yes definitely. but no (VC) money goes to it

[13:25] <timotimo> i wouldn't mind if we had a public mirror for all perl6 related repos on github

[13:25] <timotimo> we do have a beefy server now ...

[13:25] * brrt agrees

[13:26] <brrt> and is also not in a position to build said mirrors

[13:26] <timotimo> someone™ would just have to build a little thingie that keeps things up to date

[13:32] <rudi_s> brrt, japhb: git://git.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/he29heri/moarvm/

[13:33] <rudi_s> Repository with patches. I'v split them into "easy" and maybe problematic patches where I remove calls to functions. It should be correct, but somebody should check that.

[13:34] <brrt> aye, i'll check it out :-)

[13:34] <brrt> thanks for taking the time :-)

[13:34] <rudi_s> np, it's just trivial cleanup.

[13:34] <jnthn> .oO( you need to fetch it before you checkout it :P )

[13:34] <rudi_s> ;D

[13:35] <brrt> yes, you do :-)

[13:35] <rudi_s> Btw. it might be useful to add -Wformat to catch future problems with format issues. Otherwise the __attribute__((format())) is not that useful.

[13:35] <brrt> any idea if __attribute__((format())) works with clang?

[13:35] <brrt> i'm forced / stuck on os x for the time being

[13:36] <brrt> otherwise i've nothing to base on

[13:36] <rudi_s> AFAIK yes. But haven't tested it.

[13:37] <rudi_s> http://clang.llvm.org/docs/AttributeReference.html#format-gnu-format <- looks like yes.

[13:37] <brrt> (good lord the slowness of clang it never ceases to amaze me)

[13:37] <brrt> excellent

[13:37] * jnthn kicked off a build/test on MSVC

[13:37] <rudi_s> I haven't tested it with MSVC, if it supports the format attribute the patch should be adapted.

[13:39] <rudi_s> Regarding the last patch, I'm not sure if special characters in the file name are a problem (like "\r" or such). If you have an escape function for that in the code-base, it might be a good idea to use it instead.

[13:41] <[Coke]> clang seems fast enough on os x, but then, I don't have much to compare it too here.

[13:42] <brrt> what is the zu field?

[13:42] <brrt> well, that's the thing isn't it... i'm sure jnthn fields non-parallel nmake is plenty fast too :-P

[13:43] <brrt> (the %zu format specifier, never seen that before)

[13:44] <nwc10> brrt: I assume that you can get gcc via macports

[13:45] <nwc10> jnthn: I can test on clang (I think) but I'd prefer to have about 15 minutes to take it all the way to a spectest

[13:45] * brrt should probably get gcc then

[13:46] <jnthn> nwc10: Go for it, I've got a Rakudo build/spectest running here

[13:46] <jnthn> NQP looks fine on MSVC with the rudi_s++ patches

[13:46] <nwc10> I've got to "spectesting master/master/nom with clang"

[13:46] <nwc10> which I'd not done before

[13:48] <jnthn> .oO( Does running "make specktest" bring home the bacon? )

[13:48] <nwc10> you have a pun track mind

[13:50] <brrt> my, what many variables have been removed

[13:55] <jnthn> spectest looks good

[13:55] <nwc10> jnthn: I get to the end of the spectest

[13:55] <nwc10> t/spec/S17-lowlevel/lock.rakudo.moar failed during the spectest run, but happens to pass when run interactively

[13:55] <brrt> jnthn, i have S32-list/squish.rakudo.moar TODO passing

[13:55] <nwc10> the clang build is very chatty

[13:55] <brrt> but i assume that to be unrelated?

[13:55] <nwc10> but was without the changes

[13:55] <nwc10> t/spec/S32-list/squish.rakudo.moar                          (Wstat: 0 Tests: 36 Failed: 0) TODO passed:   16, 18

[13:55] <nwc10> me too!

[13:56] <brrt> anyway, looks good to me

[13:56] <brrt> can't believe we had so many unused variables

[13:57] <brrt> shall i push, or wait until others have results?

[13:57] <jnthn> brrt: Yes, I saw that TODO pass also

[13:57] <brrt> perhaps a fix in rakudo?

[13:58] <nwc10> my results are in

[13:58] <jnthn> brrt: Lemme finish glancing through the patches themselves

[13:58] <brrt> np

[13:59] <nwc10> I admit that I've not looked into the patches (or the commit messages)

[14:02] <jnthn> Seems fine overall

[14:03] <jnthn> I'd be a bit more inclined to just toss the unused functions in 712b5582c0a than comment them

[14:05] <brrt> yeah, me too

[14:06] <brrt> i can rebase that to a delete, but i don't think it's worth it

[14:06] <brrt> what is more of these functions i can believe that 'one day' they'll be usefull

[14:07] <dalek> MoarVM: fd011ba | (Simon Ruderich)++ | src/moar.h:

[14:07] <dalek> MoarVM: moar.h: mark MVM_vm_set_exec_name as MVM_NO_RETURN

[14:07] <dalek> MoarVM:

[14:07] <dalek> MoarVM: Also fixes a compiler warning for main().

[14:07] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/fd011ba514

[14:08] <brrt> sorry dalek!

[14:08] *** dalek joined
[14:08] <[Coke]> in general, if we're not using them, I'd remove them. maybe open an issue to track that they were removed and what commit hash if someone wants to try to retrieve them later. unused code is a maintenance issue.

[14:08] <timotimo> jnthn: do you think it'd be all right if the eventloop thread would get a signal the event loop can wait for to handle the gc synchronisation stuff?

[14:09] <brrt> in general i agree. but this is serialization stuff. it's not unthinkable that one day we'd need a read_int64 and a read_int32

[14:09] <brrt> and nobody is going to find these functions if we bury them in history

[14:10] <jnthn> [Coke], brrt: Actually they are about identical to some functions in serialization.c that are used

[14:10] <jnthn> So you can find a similar one to steal easy enough :)

[14:11] <jnthn> timotimo: There's probably an even better way

[14:12] <jnthn> timotimo: In that the GC understands threads that are unable to join in, so we really need to clear/set that each time around the event loop, and I think there is a way to arrange for that to happen.

[14:14] <timotimo> that sounds good

[14:15] <jnthn> That whole area needs a re-visit at some point soonish

[14:15] <timotimo> brrt: is there a good reason why reading 64bit and 32bit ints would be superior to varints?

[14:15] <timotimo> perhaps if we know that the higher bits are very likely to be set or something

[14:15] <jnthn> Some bits of it were very much "make this work so we can figure out the Perl 6 level pieces"

[14:16] <timotimo> ah, sure

[14:16] <timotimo> i should start the weekly

[14:17] <rudi_s> brrt: %zu is the specifier for size_t.

[14:17] <timotimo> oh, good to know

[14:23] *** cygx joined
[14:24] <cygx> o/

[14:24] <cygx> any thoughts on http://irclog.perlgeek.de/moarvm/2015-03-27#i_10352051 ?

[14:24] <nwc10> IIRC %zu is C99, but I've no idea how many really grumpy C89 only C compilers remain (of interest)

[14:25] <brrt> i have no idea btw :-)

[14:25] <brrt> \o cygx

[14:25] <rudi_s> nwc10: It is.

[14:25] <cygx> Does MSVC support the 'z' modifier nowadays? IIRC, it did not in the past...

[14:25] <rudi_s> If not, the patches need an update and a few more casts.

[14:26] <nwc10> given jnthn's build completed, I infer that *his* MVSC (at least) is happy with it

[14:26] <cygx> nwc10: just because it builds does not mean it works as intended

[14:27] <brrt> cygx - the memorization can be implemented in a simpler way, iirc

[14:27] <brrt> i have implemented that a once looong time ago, without moarvm changes

[14:27] <brrt> let me see if i can dig up the commit

[14:28] <nwc10> cygx: that's a good point.

[14:28] <nwc10> if the code path is never exercised by a test, problems won't be spotted, because it has to go wrong at runtime.

[14:29] <timotimo> cygx: i'd love for us to have bytecode loading from memory :)

[14:29] <brrt> can't find it :-(

[14:30] <brrt> but anyway, it's a good feature, that's for sure

[14:32] <cygx> Microsoft's C runtime shipped on my machine apparently does not understand %zu

[14:33] <cygx> apparently, it should be spelled %Iu in MS land

[15:06] <brrt> that's lame

[15:20] *** synopsebot joined
[16:41] *** kjs_ joined
[17:26] *** colomon joined
[17:47] *** kjs_ joined
[17:48] *** ShimmerFairy joined
[17:58] *** kjs_ joined
[17:59] *** FROGGS joined
[18:01] *** kjs_ joined
[18:13] *** brrt joined
[19:18] *** rurban_ joined
[19:44] *** kjs_ joined
[19:47] *** brrt joined
[19:52] <rudi_s> I guess it's time a for a new macro ...

[19:53] <rudi_s> If you tell me how I should call it, I can update my patch.

[19:53] <FROGGS> marco?

[19:53] <rudi_s> %zu vs. %Iu for size_t.

[19:56] <brrt> hmm, somethng like SIZE_T_PRINTF_FORMAT_SPECIFIER :-P

[19:56] <FROGGS> sorry, marco already was my suggestion :S

[19:56] <FROGGS> ahh, it is about sprintf

[19:57] <brrt> or may PRIszt like PRIx32 etc

[19:57] <jnthn> Prefix any macros we add with MVM_

[19:57] <brrt> nryyrt yry

[19:57] <brrt> .. that's what i was about to say

[19:57] <brrt> :-)

[19:57] <jnthn> MVM_FORMAT_SIZE_T or so

[19:58] <brrt> for what it's worth, apparantly git federation isn't hard at all

[19:58] * brrt should get his own server

[19:59] <brrt> btw, i've sadly lost the patches to fakexecutable perl6, but i know nwc10 was also working on it

[19:59] <FROGGS> there is also stuff in the execname branches... though I dunno how useful that is

[20:00] <brrt> rudi_s - is your server down perchance?

[20:00] <brrt> i can't fetch from here

[20:17] <rudi_s> brrt: Should work fine.

[20:18] <brrt> should be git://git.informatik.uni-er​langen.de/he29heri/moarvm/ right

[20:19] <rudi_s> Yeah.

[20:47] <brrt> hmm

[20:50] <brrt> must've typoed

[20:50] <brrt> now it works

[21:03] <brrt> for those interested, I have nearly finished my hague grant application: https://docs.google.com/document/d/18Uofes2m79GvfHm_XFlu0_G18meLp4Tks0tDwAcrvtY/edit?usp=sharing

[21:03] <brrt> it needs a better description of benefits, for one thing

[21:19] <timotimo> yay, bart gets monies!

[21:19] <brrt> free money!

[21:20] <brrt> many hacking!

[21:20] <timotimo> i'm glad to see you possibly get sponsored

[21:22] <brrt> i hope it'll work out

[21:26] *** kjs_ joined
[21:27] <jnthn> brrt: Taking a look :)

[21:27] <brrt> thanks

[21:30] <jnthn> "These deliverables are not ordered chronologically."

[21:30] <jnthn> Is there any way they could be? :)

[21:31] <jnthn> "Moreover because each part is independent even very simple optimizations across fragment boundaries are impossible or very hard."

[21:31] <jnthn> That'd benefit from a comma or two :)

[21:31] * brrt looks at it

[21:31] <jnthn> After the Moreover and the independent

[21:32] <brrt> added :-)

[21:33] <brrt> dynasm is just about the densest C code I have ever seen

[21:34] <brrt> and it's author thinks nothing of goto-ing into an else {} block

[21:35] <timotimo> i thought dynasm was lua

[21:35] <timotimo> shows how much i know :P

[21:35] <timotimo> i thought it's lua code that generates c code, that is

[21:35] <jnthn> "Moreover because each part is independent even very simple optimizations across fragment boundaries are impossible or very hard."

[21:35] <jnthn> oops

[21:36] <jnthn> "I will report on my work using my blog as I have done last year"

[21:36] <jnthn> I'd add "during GSoC" to the end there maybe

[21:36] <brrt> ah yes

[21:37] <jnthn> "Worhtington"...who's that guy? :P

[21:38] <timotimo> tingtong?

[21:39] <brrt> damnit i'm a misspelling fool

[21:39] <brrt> better this way.. right :-)

[21:39] <jnthn> "many talks at perl conferences" may want Perl capitalized :)

[21:40] <jnthn> There's a "perl6" that could be "Perl 6" in the benefits section, but you said you're still working on that... :)

[21:40] <brrt> yes

[21:41] <brrt> of course one of the benefits is 'this is a lot of fun for me' but i don't think that is really convincing to TPF

[21:42] <jnthn> aye :)

[21:44] <timotimo> it might be taken as a sign for "i'll finish this for sure"

[21:46] <brrt> that is true

[21:47] <[Coke]> I would recommend not adding that as a reason. :P

[21:48] <jnthn> I'd expand on higher performance a bit

[21:49] <jnthn> It's "less CPU instructions to execute, producing greater speed and using less memory."

[21:49] <brrt> right

[21:50] <timotimo> i was idly wondering if our jit (or spesh) stage would benefit from loop unrolling at all

[21:50] <jnthn> "This will help make Perl 6's performance more competitive."

[21:50] <timotimo> also, when/how do we emit gc sync points in tight loops?

[21:51] <jnthn> timotimo: At the moment, probably all over the palace, but we only need to emit them on back branches.

[21:51] <brrt> jnthn: you're going to forgive me for plagiarizing that

[21:51] <brrt> right :-)

[21:51] <jnthn> brrt: Apparently :)

[21:51] <timotimo> can back branches be determined just by comparing bb index?

[21:52] <brrt> no

[21:52] <brrt> that is indeed a bit harder a problem than it looks

[21:52] <brrt> but

[21:53] <brrt> back branches are always non-successor branches

[21:53] <timotimo> for something as simple as deciding where to put GC sync points, probably not as terrible to not always be right

[21:53] <brrt> (loop detection is a thing of its own, btw :-))

[21:53] <brrt> no but it also used e.g. for register allocation

[21:53] <timotimo> i'm not going to fall into the trap of saying "how hard could it be" :P

[21:53] <timotimo> we don't do smart register allocation yet anyway

[21:54] <timotimo> at least not after the mast compiler is through

[21:54] <brrt> read the book: http://www.amazon.co.uk/Compilers-Principles-Techniques-Alfred-Aho/dp/0321491696/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1427752445&sr=8-2&keywords=compilers+aho :-P

[21:54] <jnthn> timotimo: I think brrt is talking about CPU register allocation :)

[21:54] <timotimo> oh, fair enough

[21:54] <brrt> yeah, i am :-)

[21:54] <jnthn> The mast compiler makes a pretty good effort.

[21:54] <timotimo> wow, expensive book

[21:55] <brrt> iirc global register allocation has combinatorial difficulty problems

[21:55] <timotimo> but probably also expansive

[21:55] <timotimo> yeah

[21:55] <timotimo> i remember that part; same thing as graph coloring, no?

[21:57] <brrt> iirc, yes

[21:57] <brrt> (the hardcover one sells for 168 euro :-o)

[21:57] <timotimo> ugh

[21:58] <timotimo> is it out of print or something?

[21:59] <brrt> i guess so

[21:59] <timotimo> d'oh, not much progress on the weekly yet

[21:59] <timotimo> and it's almost midnight

[22:00] <brrt> oh, good luck on that :-)

[22:00] * brrt is going to sleep for now

[22:00] <jnthn> 'night, brrt

[22:01] <timotimo> gnite brrt!

[22:01] <brrt> 'night all

[22:01] <timotimo> man, i'm looking forward to that

[22:02] <jnthn> Sleep? :)

[22:03] <timotimo> nah, the jit after brrt's pleased with it :)

[22:04] <jnthn> ah :)

[23:11] <rudi_s> Pushed a few more patches to fix warnings to git://git.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/he29heri/moarvm/

[23:45] *** dalek joined
