[00:25] <timotimo> yes

[00:25] <timotimo> except ... maybe if i didn't fix it correctly

[00:35] *** xiaomiao joined
[01:49] *** ilbot3 joined
[04:03] *** FROGGS_ joined
[07:02] *** vendethiel joined
[07:55] *** Ven joined
[08:02] *** Ven joined
[09:44] *** Ven joined
[10:41] *** Ven joined
[10:50] *** colomon joined
[12:19] *** Ven joined
[12:56] *** Ven joined
[13:24] *** Ven joined
[13:27] *** Ven joined
[13:33] *** brrt joined
[13:53] *** Ven joined
[14:08] <brrt> \o #moarvm

[14:36] <brrt> thought i'd share this: http://reocities.com/SiliconValley/heights/7052/opcode.txt

[14:36] <brrt> many fascinate

[14:37] *** ggoebel joined
[14:51] *** brrt joined
[15:10] <brrt> it's about x86 opcode encoding, btw :-)

[15:18] <timotimo> yeah, i gathered as much

[15:18] <brrt> many fascinating resources

[15:18] <timotimo> seems like you're already half way through the preparations for x86_64 register selection encoding :P

[15:18] <brrt> well.... wouldn't go so far. but it's a very interesting topic

[15:18] <timotimo> ;)

[15:19] <brrt> for what it's worth, i'd prefer to have the dynasm hackery done before i actually begin

[15:19] <brrt> but known my time schedule, i'm not sure that's possible

[15:19] <timotimo> if you have any tasks that can easily be explained, but take a lot of typing ... maybe you can ask me to do it :)

[15:20] <brrt> (if i actually begin, because all might not come to pass, and then i'll have to work in the coal mines ^W^W^W^W^W the app business)

[15:20] <timotimo> yikes

[15:20] <brrt> well, i'd prefer the devirt-repr-ops branch merged before i begin.... but i might get a look at that myself too :-)

[15:20] <timotimo> if there was any weight to my word, i would put in a good word for your application at TPF :)

[15:20] <timotimo> i just rebased it yesterday and saw there were merge conflicts that i'll have to have a closer look at >_<

[15:21] <brrt> why wouldn't there be weight to your word? :-)

[15:21] <brrt> aw men

[15:21] <timotimo> dunno

[15:21] <brrt> s/known/knowing/

[15:23] <brrt> also the introduction of a perl6 core development fund is very exciting i think

[15:24] <brrt> i mean, it is pretty much seems earmarked for jnthn :-) but that is where i'd bet if i could

[15:25] <timotimo> :)

[15:25] <timotimo> i'm fond of it as well

[15:25] <brrt> lizmat++ and woolfy++ for it :-)

[15:28] <timotimo> yes!

[15:28] <timotimo> so much ++ for lizmat++ and woolfy++

[15:31] <timotimo> i'm also glad there's always a new name on #perl6 :)

[15:37] <JimmyZ> new name?

[15:38] <timotimo> new persons

[15:38] <timotimo> i wanted to say "new face" instead, but that didn't seem accurate :)

[15:38] <timotimo> people*

[15:38] <timotimo> not persons

[15:39] <timotimo> how does i english

[15:39] <JimmyZ> I thought new name of perl6 or perl6's things

[15:57] <timotimo> ah, hehe

[15:57] <timotimo> that sometimes happens, too

[16:04] <FROGGS_> lol, I guess I forgot about that: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/blob/master/src/core/nativecall.c#L755

[16:04] <FROGGS_> :o)

[16:06] <timotimo> did that bite someone?

[16:08] <FROGGS_> no, it just came to my mind when I implemented that for jvm

[16:13] <timotimo> ah, hehe

[17:02] *** Ven joined
[18:20] <dalek> MoarVM: ce786a1 | FROGGS++ | src/core/nativecall.c:

[18:20] <dalek> MoarVM: fix exception message for arg in 'is rw' param slot

[18:20] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/ce786a18e3

[19:12] *** vendethiel joined
[20:27] *** btyler joined
[23:35] *** xiaomiao joined
