[00:07] *** lucasb left
[00:25] *** sena_kun left
[01:21] *** Voldenet joined
[01:21] *** Voldenet left
[01:21] *** Voldenet joined
[02:30] *** squashable6 joined
[03:06] *** ZzZombo_ joined
[03:08] *** ZzZombo_ is now known as ZzZombo

[04:13] *** squashable6 left
[04:15] *** squashable6 joined
[04:38] *** angelds joined
[05:17] *** angelds left
[05:18] *** angelds joined
[05:39] *** angelds left
[05:40] *** angelds joined
[05:47] *** angelds left
[05:47] *** angelds joined
[05:52] *** angelds left
[05:56] *** robertle left
[05:56] <nine> dogbert17: 329f669c and ea9b29e8 can be merged into 1 changelog entry

[05:59] <nine> Personally I'd prefer a rather more condensed ChangeLog that focused more on the user visible impact. E.g. several entries could be summed up as "destroying threads no longer leads to obscure crashes".

[06:00] <nine> openSUSE restricts changelog entries for RPM files to IIRC 30 lines which always forces me to condense entries. This is actually what takes most of my time when packaging rakudo and it's tedious work, but the result really feels much more useful.

[06:01] <nine> For example as a user I'd not have the slightest idea what "Oops don't overwrite fields; add a new one instead" does for me

[06:01] *** colomon joined
[06:02] <nine> It probably fixes a bug that was introduced after the previous release, so not something I'd have encountered anyway

[06:05] *** ZzZombo left
[06:23] *** ZzZombo joined
[06:38] *** ZzZombo_ joined
[06:40] *** ZzZombo left
[06:40] *** ZzZombo_ is now known as ZzZombo

[08:49] *** sena_kun joined
[09:01] *** robertle joined
[09:08] *** Altai-man_ joined
[09:11] *** sena_kun left
[10:12] *** squashable6 left
[10:12] *** squashable6 joined
[11:10] *** sena_kun joined
[11:11] *** Altai-man_ left
[11:30] *** Kaeipi joined
[11:31] *** Kaiepi left
[11:41] *** angelds joined
[12:14] <dogbert17> nine: I've fixed some of the things you pointed out, however the changelog is still rather large

[12:15] <dogbert17> timotimo, jnthn, MasterDuke: any comments wrt the Changelog draft? https://gist.github.com/dogbert17/1c151a7a54093bb648312bd852a18d36

[12:18] <dogbert17> and samcv of course

[12:23] <sena_kun> dogbert17, I am not an expert, but is it necessary to mention every single commit? if yes, I think small ones can be gathered under a single entry, e.g. "C99 fix", "Fix duplicate includes", they are mostly style, OTOH "Experiment to develop new heapsnapshot format" <- there are a bunch of them and it can be written as "Preparation work for new heapsnapshot format".

[12:24] <dogbert17> sena_kun: I'm no expert either but I'll try to implement your suggestions

[12:24] <sena_kun> for example,"Add some safety checks for macOS due to homebrew binutils and Xcode incompatibilities" is easy to understand for the user, but "[8efd3825] Make scripts executable" <- what scripts?

[12:25] <sena_kun> "Spesh bisect should learn about PEA" <- it certainly should, maybe "Add better support of PEA to spesh bisect"

[12:25] <dogbert17> I definitely could remove some of the more vague commits, hopefully I won't piss anyone off

[12:25] <sena_kun> most of them are looking nice, dogbert17++

[12:26] <sena_kun> "Add obviously missing break; to switch statement in instrument_graph" <- "Fix a subtle bug in instrument_graph"

[12:30] <dogbert17> sena_kun: please go on

[12:31] <sena_kun> "Fix incorrect conditional" <- it might be hard to understand what bug or warned was caused by the commit alone, but at least mentioning a place can make things a bit more clear

[12:33] <sena_kun> "Give error message improvement to libffi as well" <- not sure about that, maybe "Improve error message for libffi"? Can it be merged with "Add more context to error messages" before that?

[12:33] <sena_kun> the same for the next line

[12:33] <sena_kun> "If getaddrinfo in debugserver fails, get better error" <- "Better error if ..."

[12:33] <dogbert17> cool, will fix

[12:34] <sena_kun> "Make debugserver errors/output clearer with "Debugserver:"" <- not very clear what "Debugserver:" means in this context... Like a string is prepended for easy grepping? Or something related to envvars responsible for debugserver logging?

[12:34] <sena_kun> "Refer to Rakudo as just ‚ÄúRakudo‚Äù" can be just "Improve naming in documentation", I think...

[12:36] <sena_kun> "New GC debug level" <- maybe write a bit more? Like how to invoke it, --debug=2, --debug=10, --debug-level=super-tiny?

[12:36] <sena_kun> https://gist.github.com/dogbert17/1c151a7a54093bb648312bd852a18d36#file-gistfile1-txt-L83-L84 <- these two can be merged

[12:37] <sena_kun> "Actually make async sockets work again" <- and some below that can be merged into... we need to look at Kaeipi++ PRs to think of some short and clear description of what was done

[12:37] <sena_kun> "Fix for M#1172, possible uid/gid confusion" <- confusion of what?

[12:37] <synopsebot> M#1172 [open]: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/issues/1172 possible uid/gid confusion

[12:38] <sena_kun> "Jit some num ops" <- can we specify which ones?

[12:39] <sena_kun> "Make jit-dump.pl useful again" <- no idea if it can be made more clear...

[12:41] <sena_kun> "Say hello to MVM_CONFPROG_DEBUG env var" <- hm? If it is about introducing it, then "Introduce new env variable ... which enables ...", if something else, then no idea

[12:42] <sena_kun> as I wrote already, https://gist.github.com/dogbert17/1c151a7a54093bb648312bd852a18d36#file-gistfile1-txt-L194-L208 can be merged into a single item, probably

[12:43] <sena_kun> https://gist.github.com/dogbert17/1c151a7a54093bb648312bd852a18d36#file-gistfile1-txt-L251 <- "Fix clang warnings in GB2313 implementation"?

[12:43] <sena_kun> also, possibly https://gist.github.com/dogbert17/1c151a7a54093bb648312bd852a18d36#file-gistfile1-txt-L251-L254 can be merged

[12:44] <dogbert17> Excellent feedback, truly appreciated

[12:44] <sena_kun> + [986f3403] Add GB18030 encode, decode and decodestream support and + [73f28d38] Add GB2312 encode, decode and decodestream support are duplicates

[12:44] <sena_kun> ouch, they are not, sorry

[12:45] <sena_kun> "Configure.pl: I assume I forgot this line in has_native_library" <- "I want to eat pizza right now...", no, stop, not this one, "Fix ??? in Configure.pl"

[12:45] <sena_kun> phew, it is huge!

[12:45] <sena_kun> dogbert17++ for working on it, great job.

[12:47] <robertle> sena_kun: I can answer the "possible uid/gid confusion"...

[12:47] <sena_kun> robertle, if you can rephrase it to be clearer for the end user what was fixed for dogbert17, that'd be awesome, I think

[12:48] <dogbert17> sena_kun: if you refresh the gist I have fixed some of the things you pointed out, will continue after a short lunch

[12:49] <robertle> perhaps "fixed a problem around group permissions that could lead to files/directories not being regarded readable or writable when in fact they are"

[12:49] <robertle> perhaps a tad too long

[12:49] <robertle> "file permission interpretation problems around groups"?

[12:53] <Kaeipi> my pr mainly focused on issues related to dns resolution and gc for async sockets iirc

[12:56] *** angelds left
[12:57] *** angelds joined
[13:09] *** Altai-man_ joined
[13:11] *** sena_kun left
[13:23] *** angelds left
[13:34] *** robertle left
[13:36] *** robertle joined
[14:25] <dogbert17> sena_kun: we're now down to 'only' 245 lines

[14:25] <tellable6> dogbert17, I'll pass your message to sena_kun

[14:31] *** lucasb joined
[14:44] *** Altai-man_ is now known as sena_kun

[14:44] <sena_kun>  

[14:44] <tellable6> 2019-11-19T14:25:54Z #moarvm <dogbert17> sena_kun: we're now down to 'only' 245 lines

[14:45] <sena_kun> dogbert17, I don't see what else can be reduced myself. last release was 4 month ago and having a long changelog is expected, I think

[14:49] <dogbert17> Cool, I'll PR it against the 'release-2019.11' branch then

[14:54] <sena_kun> (even 5 month ago, I think)

[14:56] <nine> dogbert17: the headlines will already help me a lot when condensing it further :)

[14:56] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: dogbert17++ created pull request #1213: Update ChangeLog for release

[14:56] <Geth> ¬¶ MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/pull/1213

[14:57] <dogbert17> phew

[14:58] *** squashable6 left
[15:00] *** squashable6 joined
[15:08] <nine> dogbert17, sena_kun: thank you for working on this!

[15:08] *** Altai-man_ joined
[15:11] *** sena_kun left
[15:36] *** vrurg_ joined
[15:36] *** vrurg_ left
[15:36] *** vrurg_ joined
[16:08] *** robertle left
[16:08] *** ZzZombo left
[16:26] *** ZzZombo joined
[16:53] *** domidumont joined
[17:04] *** robertle joined
[17:11] *** Altai-man_ left
[17:58] *** brrt joined
[18:39] *** brrt left
[19:06] *** robertle left
[19:47] *** domidumont left
[20:48] *** brrt joined
[20:49] <brrt> btw, nine++

[20:50] <brrt> (for the fix in the unshift of ConcBlockingQueue)

[20:50] <brrt> I still confess I don't entirely get what could've gone wrong

[21:23] *** Kaeipi left
[21:25] *** Kaiepi joined
[21:38] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:38] *** AlexDaniel left
[21:38] *** AlexDaniel joined
[21:39] *** domidumont joined
[21:41] *** domidumont left
[22:13] *** brrt left
[22:22] <samcv> .

[22:33] <samcv> I think somebody sent me a message on here on #raku-dev. maybe guest#####

[23:50] *** lucasb left
