[00:00] *** reportable6 left
[00:01] *** Kaypie is now known as Kaiepi

[00:02] *** reportable6 joined
[00:08] *** Kaypie joined
[00:09] *** Kaiepi left
[00:48] *** lucasb left
[01:08] *** squashable6 left
[01:11] *** squashable6 joined
[01:55] *** Kaypie left
[01:55] *** Kaypie joined
[03:54] *** AlexDani` joined
[03:58] *** AlexDaniel left
[05:23] *** lizmat left
[05:56] *** squashable6 left
[05:58] *** squashable6 joined
[06:00] *** reportable6 left
[06:03] *** reportable6 joined
[07:09] *** chloekek joined
[07:37] *** MasterDuke left
[09:07] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[09:07] *** AlexDaniel left
[09:07] *** AlexDaniel joined
[11:09] *** squashable6 left
[11:11] *** squashable6 joined
[11:42] *** MasterDuke joined
[12:00] *** reportable6 left
[12:02] *** reportable6 joined
[13:27] *** squashable6 left
[13:29] *** squashable6 joined
[14:36] *** lucasb joined
[15:07] *** squashable6 left
[15:12] *** squashable6 joined
[15:42] *** vesper11 joined
[16:50] *** sena_kun joined
[17:05] *** sena_kun left
[17:05] *** sena_kun joined
[17:16] *** sena_kun left
[17:17] *** sena_kun joined
[17:17] *** sena_kun left
[18:00] *** reportable6 left
[18:02] *** reportable6 joined
[18:21] *** pamplemousse joined
[18:36] *** Kaypie is now known as Kaiepi

[18:36] *** pamplemousse left
[19:20] *** pamplemousse joined
[19:25] *** pamplemousse left
[19:25] *** pamplemousse joined
[20:17] *** pamplemousse left
[20:20] *** pamplemousse joined
[20:25] *** chloekek left
[20:58] *** lizmat joined
[22:35] *** lizmat left
[22:35] <MasterDuke> timotimo: i just mentioned you in https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/issues/1056 , but i don't remember how to actually update a submodule we use

[22:36] <timotimo> cd in, git checkout stuff, cd out, git add the path, git commit

[22:36] <timotimo> i mean, "git pull" is also okay because that does a merge, which is a kind of checkout

[22:37] <MasterDuke> i just tried checkout out the v1.1.0 tag, but i just get `error: pathspec 'v1.1.0' did not match any file(s) known to git`

[22:37] <MasterDuke> oh, i don't have an upstream remote

[22:39] <MasterDuke> timotimo: will that lose the changes we've made on top?

[22:39] <timotimo> yeah, it would

[22:40] <timotimo> you'd have to create a commit that has all changes we need, and it'd have to be in the repository that we've set up in .gitmodules so that others can get it when doing "git pull" on the outer repository

[22:41] <MasterDuke> sounds like the sort of thing i shouldn't do right before going to bed

[22:41] <MasterDuke> maybe i'll get to it tomorrow if nobody else does first

[22:41] <timotimo> as long as you don't push to master, it'll be no problem :)

[22:41] <MasterDuke> timotimo: fyi, https://github.com/libtom/libtommath/issues/328

[22:50] *** pamplemousse left
[23:58] *** lucasb left
