[00:31] *** squashable6 left
[00:36] *** squashable6 joined
[00:36] *** AlexDani` joined
[00:40] *** AlexDaniel left
[01:13] *** klapperl left
[02:40] *** klapperl joined
[04:01] *** Kaiepi left
[04:25] *** MasterDuke left
[04:57] *** Kaiepi joined
[05:34] <samcv> :)

[05:34] *** domidumont joined
[05:58] *** domidumont left
[06:17] *** domidumont joined
[07:03] *** brrt joined
[07:03] <brrt> \o

[07:09] *** patrickb joined
[07:17] <nwc10> o/

[07:26] <brrt> do we have a relevant mailing list?

[07:27] <brrt> that I need to introduce the student to, I mean

[07:27] <brrt> I don't think we do

[07:50] *** zakharyas joined
[08:28] *** lizmat_ joined
[08:30] *** lizmat left
[08:52] *** brrt left
[09:24] *** Kaiepi left
[09:24] *** Kaiepi joined
[09:32] *** brrt joined
[09:33] *** squashable6 left
[09:38] *** squashable6 joined
[10:07] *** domidumont left
[10:31] <brrt> is it me, or is github gists down

[10:32] <timotimo> in #perl6 there's someone else complaining about github being down

[10:32] <timotimo> it works for me, though

[10:32] <timotimo> both github itself and gist.github.com

[10:33] *** lizmat_ is now known as lizmat

[10:38] *** Kaypie joined
[10:38] *** Kaiepi left
[10:38] *** brrt` joined
[10:40] <brrt`> timotimo: do you know a good alternative

[10:40] *** brrt left
[10:41] <timotimo> sprunge.us does the job

[10:41] <timotimo> depends entirely on what feature set you need, of course

[10:42] <brrt`> http://sprunge.us/dKxZpl

[10:42] <brrt`> it'll do

[10:43] <brrt`> I'll be afk for a couple of hours, I'd appreciate notes

[10:43] <timotimo> whoa, where did that come from

[10:43] <brrt`> I typed that

[10:44] <timotimo> to attract younger folk we could point out that you can reach #moarvm from discord

[10:47] *** brrt` left
[10:49] <timotimo> if we wanted to be compatible with vc++ compiler we wouldn't have to do the definition thing

[10:50] <timotimo> msvcpp has all the newer features, doesn't it?

[11:03] *** zakharyas left
[11:17] <timotimo> i'd also point out MVM_PUBLIC on top of the MVM_ name prefix

[11:17] <timotimo> and structs having to start with "MVM"

[11:19] <Woodi> VCpp is probably 2k+, VC is long forgotten...

[11:20] *** Kaypie left
[11:21] <timotimo> the "default wrapper scripts" are compiled nowadays, so at least in the near future the warning about perl6-gdb-m and such could be removed

[11:23] *** Kaiepi joined
[11:41] *** Kaiepi left
[11:45] *** Kaiepi joined
[11:56] *** Geth left
[11:56] *** Geth joined
[11:59] *** sena_kun joined
[12:06] *** zakharyas joined
[12:09] *** Kaiepi left
[12:11] *** domidumont joined
[12:23] *** AlexDani` is now known as AlexDaniel

[12:23] *** AlexDaniel left
[12:23] *** AlexDaniel joined
[12:26] *** domidumont1 joined
[12:29] *** Kaiepi joined
[12:30] *** domidumont left
[12:47] *** lizmat left
[12:50] *** brrt` joined
[12:50] <brrt`> timotimo: wait, what's discord

[12:51] *** brrt` is now known as brrt

[12:53] <timotimo> a chat system that's popular with kids these days

[12:54] <timotimo> i'll do that fedora system upgrade now, it'll take me a while.

[12:56] <Woodi> brrt: it's takover ot TeamSpeak with one difference: you CAN'T host your own servers...

[12:58] <Woodi> is replacing libuv on horizon maybe ?

[13:02] <brrt> why would it be

[13:02] <brrt> libuv gives us threads, async io, goodies

[13:02] <brrt> or better question

[13:02] <brrt> Woodi: why would you want libuv to be replaced? :-)

[13:07] <Woodi> brrt: to have something faster :)

[13:10] <brrt> in which application? :-)

[13:12] <brrt> and, replaced by what?

[13:13] <brrt> I thought we were reasonably happy with libuv, but I don't know everything

[13:13] <brrt> Maybe in Cro it shows up as a bottleneck

[13:15] <Woodi> brrt: which: looks like projects are dropping libuv. I read disk are slow and network is 14% slower then raw POSIX calls. with what ? something new, of course :)  and, for some reason, I'm sure it was a plan from the start.

[13:15] <brrt> Ok, well, I wasn't aware of any of that

[13:16] <Woodi> I see libuv as something that allowed to have us have high-level Perl6 as soon as possible.

[13:17] <Woodi> but that's why asked about 'horizon' :)

[13:17] <brrt> I see

[13:18] <Woodi> but h2o db and C# dropped libuv

[13:18] <brrt> Well, I think, MoarVM is kind of budget-constrained, and I'm reasonably confident that libuv isn't yet a bottleneck

[13:21] *** pamplemousse joined
[13:44] <brrt> timotimo: how do you connect with #moarvm via discord?

[14:01] <ugexe> Id be really surprised if libuv was a bottleneck for anything

[14:01] <ugexe> I’ve never heard of anyone complain about anything other than non blocking file IO (which we don’t even use)

[14:02] <brrt> oh, there's that as well

[14:02] <ugexe> so id be curious to hear what projects are dropping libuv and why

[14:02] <brrt> on the other hand, we're using libc for IO, which isn't exactly zero-overhead either

[14:10] <Woodi> one is here: http://blog.kazuhooku.com/2014/09/the-reasons-why-i-stopped-using-libuv.html  but if you like libuv then we have lots of other problems to worry about :)

[14:11] <ugexe> their speed comparison is libuv vs posix + epoll... I fail to see how that is a fair comparison given the former implies cross platform compatibility

[14:12] <tadzik> hmm, the post is from 2014 and links to a 404

[14:12] <ugexe> We also don’t use libuv for blocking network calls

[14:16] *** pamplemousse left
[14:18] <Woodi> ugexe: libuv vs epoll: it's overhead :)  and every platform have their own native and as fast as possible fast tools. but pls just ignore me, looks it is best ATM

[14:31] *** domidumont joined
[14:34] *** domidumont1 left
[14:34] <brrt> Before libuv, we had apache portable runtime... I kind of think libuv is nicer

[14:34] <brrt> I've seen far, far worse.

[14:35] <brrt> Keeping in mind that we're still dealing with C here

[14:51] *** brrt left
[14:56] <ugexe> it'd be nice to have a libuv extension that does real non-blocking file io. i thought i read something the other day about linux kernel (finally?) getting a sane async file io api, and since windows has had one since forever...

[14:57] <ugexe> https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19843464 (io_uring)

[15:20] *** lizmat joined
[15:24] <discord6> <timotimo> Brrt, you just join the perl6 discord and there's a channel called moarvm with a bit in it that bridges

[15:24] <discord6> <timotimo> Oh it's called moarvm-irc actually

[15:29] *** domidumont1 joined
[15:32] *** domidumont left
[15:51] *** patrickb left
[15:59] *** brrt joined
[16:06] *** lucasb joined
[16:16] <discord6> <timotimo> System upgrade is taking looooong

[16:25] *** sena_kun left
[16:33] *** sena_kun joined
[16:46] *** domidumont1 left
[17:24] *** brrt left
[17:39] *** zakharyas left
[18:55] *** lucasb left
[19:13] *** zakharyas joined
[19:24] *** zakharyas left
[20:23] *** brrt joined
[20:29] <brrt> ping jnthn

[20:34] <timotimo> pong brrt

[20:34] *** mtj_ left
[20:34] <brrt> timotimo: can you add members to the MoarVM organization?

[20:34] *** mtj_ joined
[20:35] <timotimo> i don't think i have much access there at all

[20:38] <brrt> hmm. Well, I need someone who can :-)

[20:39] *** lizmat left
[20:40] <brrt> oh hey, samcv is maintainer I think, as well

[20:43] *** mtj_ left
[20:47] *** mtj_ joined
[21:14] <brrt> ping samcv

[21:36] <samcv> i can add members

[21:36] <samcv> brrt, ppong

[21:36] <brrt> ohai samcv

[21:36] <brrt> yes, please

[21:37] <brrt> can you add the GH account 'pamplemoussecache' to the organization

[21:38] <samcv> who is that

[21:38] <timotimo> GSoC mentee i bet

[21:39] <samcv> ah

[21:39] <brrt> yes

[21:42] <samcv> i made a GSoC 2019 team and added them

[21:42] <samcv> who else is gsoc mentor/mentee

[21:44] <brrt> you are? Not sure about your mentee :-)

[21:45] <samcv> yeah other than me :)

[21:46] <samcv> add my mentee

[21:46] <samcv> brrt, are you a mentor?

[21:46] * samcv checks the linst

[21:54] <brrt> yes, I'm mentor

[21:55] <brrt> Does the GSoC 2019 team get push permissions? I read from the GSoc mentor guidelines that it's best to 'normalize' students

[21:56] <samcv> what is tbrowder's github again?

[21:56] <samcv> brrt, no they don't

[21:56] <samcv> not automatically

[21:57] <brrt> I think they should

[21:57] <samcv> i'd prefer that they submit at least a few PR before getting push privs. but ultimately i think should be the decision of the mentor

[22:00] <samcv> but i do agree that should be done sooner rather than later

[22:01] <samcv> we want them to feel part of the team. but i also think at least a first PR to allow the mentor and mentee to discus the code would be a good idea

[22:02] <samcv> and help the students feel more confident as well. i know when i started joining that helped me a lot

[22:03] *** brrt` joined
[22:05] *** brrt left
[22:06] <brrt`> samcv: I think that's reasonable

[22:07] <samcv> actually they maybe do get push. at least Org members don't get push privs to ALL repos automatically

[22:08] <samcv> i will check the setting for the 'moarvm' repo

[22:08] <brrt`> Ok. I'll try to get a PR first

[22:09] <samcv> brrt`, ok. "Team MoarVM" gives push access to 'moarvm.git'. but org membership doesn't

[22:12] <brrt`> I see

[22:13] *** MasterDuke joined
[22:13] *** MasterDuke left
[22:13] *** MasterDuke joined
[23:04] *** brrt`` joined
[23:05] *** brrt` left
[23:28] *** brrt`` left
[23:47] <Kaiepi> samcv i'm not part of gsoc but i will be a mentee whenever i get my mentor for my grant

