[00:00] <japhb> The work function for rat_harmonic needs to be fixed, methinks.

[00:00] <japhb> Same with rc-9-billion-names

[00:02] <timotimo> performance

[00:02] <japhb> timotimo: I think he's saying what test/functionality did we regress on?

[00:03] <japhb> But I may be misreading his question.

[00:04] <jnthn> Yeah. You can kinda read a very minor regression into while_int2str_concat_native

[00:04] <timotimo> oh

[00:04] <timotimo> that exact one, aye

[00:05] <jnthn> Curious. I notice the one above it kinda converges again...

[00:06] <timotimo> i was only guessing from memory

[00:07] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: 125e656 | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/spesh/facts.h:

[00:07] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: waste one less bit in facts bitfield

[00:07] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/125e656194

[00:07] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: 5b71b8a | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/jit/ (2 files):

[00:07] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: boolify_iter_hash and _arr in the jit, too.

[00:07] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/5b71b8a967

[00:17] <timotimo> i'll leave it in this branch for someone else to merge if they feel it's all right

[00:18] <timotimo> still about 48 hours until release, i believe?

[00:18] <jnthn> Something like that.

[00:18] <timotimo> sounds like ample time to get this little feature tested

[00:19] <timotimo> how long do i have to do benchmarks before you want your slides to be finalized?

[00:20] <timotimo> the benchmarks i gave to you don't include any of TimToady's listy improvements

[00:24] <jnthn> timotimo: I think I'm probably done with them by now

[00:24] <jnthn> timotimo: I've selected a range that illustrate good, bad, and ugly. :)

[00:24] <jnthn> Oh, and great. :)

[00:24] <timotimo> but i should still benchmark what the very recent changes did, no?

[00:25] <jnthn> Oh, please do.

[00:25] <jnthn> Just don't do it on the expectation I'm looking for more things to put in my slides. They're already packed full of things. :)

[00:25] <timotimo> surely will

[00:25] <timotimo> hm, fair enough.

[00:30] <timotimo> i think the split_iter_boolification branch is mergable now

[00:59] <jnthn> Cool

[00:59] <jnthn> Im gonna rest now

[00:59] <jnthn> But yay, my Friday talk is completed. :)

[01:00] <jnthn> (Which was the one where I had nothing I could steal from previous talks. :))

[01:03] <japhb> How many talks do you have?

[01:03] <japhb> Ah, rest.  Good night, then.  :-)

[01:04] <jnthn> japhb: 2

[01:04] <jnthn> japhb: The other one is on the Sunday :)

[01:04] <jnthn> And on async stuff, which I've talked about quite a lot at workshops

[01:05] <jnthn> I do have a new app that I'm working on that I'd like to be able to show off during it, though... :)

[01:06] <TimToady> .oO(irc bot)

[01:10] <jnthn> 'fraid not :P

[01:12] <timotimo> .o( multithread-compatible perl6 debugger )

[01:17] * japhb can't wait to see the slides+video for both.  :-)

[01:21] <jnthn> :)

[01:21] <jnthn> Really afk &

[01:30] *** FROGGS_ joined
[01:33] *** jnap joined
[02:25] <japhb> Report from the trenches: I tried switching the Rakudo variant I was using for my heavy-threading/spawning script from r-j to r-m, and had lots of threading programs.  In 6 runs, I had 4 different failure modes, from immediate crash and dump, to strange errors, to just getting incomplete results.  On the flip side, r-j has been rock solid threading wise lately, but of course much slower and missing some language-level fixes that r-m has.

[02:25] <japhb> *threading problems

[05:49] *** cognome joined
[06:18] *** brrt joined
[06:19] <brrt> timotimo: can't build moarvm with the split_iter_boolify branch, and spectests crash and burn

[06:19] <brrt> and, you're right about the iter hash facts

[06:19] <brrt> they do have to be different

[06:20] <brrt> because sometimes you just don't know :-)

[06:21] <brrt> hmm

[06:22] * brrt afk

[06:22] *** brrt left
[06:47] <sergot> morning o/

[06:59] *** klaas-janstol joined
[07:24] *** zakharyas joined
[07:26] *** klaas-janstol joined
[07:58] *** brrt joined
[08:04] <brrt> \o

[08:04] <nwc10> o/

[08:12] <brrt> nwc10: have you tried the split_iter_boolify branch?

[08:13] <nwc10> not yet

[08:13] <brrt> hmm

[08:13] <nwc10> er, where is it?

[08:13] <brrt> it burns, but i don't know why

[08:13] <brrt> lemmesee what it is really called

[08:14] <brrt> split_iter_boolification

[08:14] <brrt> we might want to keep the old 'sp_boolify_iter' which is dynamic arround after all

[08:31] *** klaas-janstol joined
[08:36] * jnthn will probably do this month's MoarVM release this evening, given Thursday will be taken up with travel to YAPC.

[08:37] <jnthn> (So keep anything risky/uncertain out of master.)

[08:38] <brrt> understood :-)

[08:53] <nwc10> brrt: t/spec/S32-str/sprintf.rakudo.moar and t/spec/S32-num/rat.rakudo.moar fail (in addition to the 2 usual sinners)

[08:53] <brrt> yeah, i've seenthose

[08:53] <brrt> seen those

[08:53] <brrt> i'll be pushing a few things in a minute

[08:54] <nwc10> other than that, it seemed happy

[08:55] <brrt> i get more breakage than that, but allright

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: 7a1b003 | (Bart Wiegmans)++ | / (9 files):

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: Neither iterating over a hash or an array is certain

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification:

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: In other words, I was wrong about the two being mutually

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: exclusive, since neither of them may actually be set.

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: This still fails a few spectests, though.

[08:59] <dalek> MoarVM/split_iter_boolification: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/7a1b003678

[09:05] *** klaas-janstol joined
[09:06] <brrt> this is /not/ a perfect commit just yet

[09:11] * brrt afk for... long :-)

[09:11] *** brrt left
[09:37] *** cono left
[10:37] *** Ven joined
[10:40] *** woolfy left
[11:09] *** Ven joined
[11:25] *** klaas-janstol joined
[11:25] *** cognome joined
[11:30] *** zakharyas joined
[11:56] *** klaas-janstol joined
[12:14] *** jnap joined
[12:22] *** klaas-janstol joined
[12:35] <timotimo> building nqp and rakudo works just fine on my end >_<

[13:03] <dalek> MoarVM: c00d549 | jnthn++ | docs/ChangeLog:

[13:03] <dalek> MoarVM: ChangeLog for 2014.08.

[13:03] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/c00d5498fc

[13:03] <jnthn> So work!

[13:05] <jnthn> The fun thing about doing ChangeLog is realizing how much got done in a month :)

[13:05] <timotimo> https://gist.github.com/timo/13e37608782ee2adf75b - this is what my spec test results look like; lock and asyncare known to flap, uniq.t is known to segfault for a long-ish time, rat.rakudo.moar and sprintf.rakudo.moar seem to be caused by the bigint is_big change that recently landed

[13:05] <jnthn> Gotta head out for a bit. More releaseeng later.

[13:06] <timotimo> oh wow, a full page of changelog

[13:06] <jnthn> timotimo: Did you try reverting the bigint change?

[13:06] <nwc10> churn is inevitable, progress is not :-) ?

[13:06] <timotimo> i should probably do that.

[13:06] <jnthn> (To see if it unbusts them)

[13:07] <jnthn> If it is guilty, then just mark the commit with a branch name, push the revert, and we deal with that in the 2014.09. :)

[13:07] <timotimo> fixes both of these spec tests

[13:07] <timotimo> will do.

[13:07] <jnthn> Unless you feel like trying to fix it... :)

[13:08] <jnthn> It didn't bust those things on Windows, fwiw. And it *did* fix the ugly drop-off bug

[13:08] <jnthn> Anyway, gotta drop by the office...bbl

[13:09] <timotimo> o/

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: 00cfece | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/math/bigintops.c:

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: Revert "Fix nqp::isbig_I to not consider so much big."

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM:

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: This reverts commit d27d560270cdfd6ec4dc3572bcf73a7281d74400.

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM:

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: caused two tests in all of the spectest suite to fail.

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: one in rat.rakudo.moar and one in sprintf.rakudo.moar.

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM:

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: Needs more investigation after the release.

[13:10] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/00cfeced39

[13:13] *** ggoebel11111114 joined
[13:14] <dalek> MoarVM: 6fdc15e | (Timo Paulssen)++ | docs/ChangeLog:

[13:14] <dalek> MoarVM: minor cosmetic changes to the changelog

[13:14] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/6fdc15eadf

[15:22] *** Ven joined
[16:28] *** Ven joined
[17:00] *** woolfy joined
[17:16] *** zakharyas joined
[17:51] *** tgt joined
[18:24] <timotimo> i just got a mail from gsoc asking us to finish the evaluation for brrt

[18:24] <timotimo> that's probably taken care of properly, aye?

[18:26] <jnthn> timotimo: It's in a 70% done state on a browser tab here :)

[18:26] <lizmat> now that he's not here: how would that evaluation work out?  positively?

[18:26] <lizmat> :-)

[18:26] <jnthn> lizmat: Oh, the "yes he passed" field was the *easy* part :P

[18:26] <lizmat> hehe... :-)  good to hear

[18:29] <timotimo> OK

[18:29] <timotimo> i have my doubts. after all, the halting problem wasn't sufficiently solved by the jit

[18:31] <TimToady> "This GSOC project makes all the other GSOC projects look wimpy, so we should not allow it."

[18:32] <TimToady> "This project's rating was so high that it overflowed and flipped the sign bit."

[18:33] <TimToady> you'll just have to give brrt++ the usual evaluation for this sort of thing: "Walks on water, needs to learn to walk on air."

[18:35] <jnthn> :)

[18:35] * jnthn is *very* happy with how the project worked out

[18:38] <FROGGS> yeah, has been a very good GSoC this year :o)

[18:38] <nwc10> me too. I'd've been happy with just "useful maintainable code, good enough to merge, did yet merge"

[18:38] <nwc10> it's way way better than that

[18:43] <timotimo> agreed

[18:43] <timotimo> and we also have a somewhat high bus factor for pieces of the puzzle

[18:56] * jnthn is very relieved that spesh has a bus number > 1 :)

[18:56] * timotimo is a bit worried he's part of the contributors to that bus number

[18:57] <timotimo> i want to build a gui tool that allows you to introspect lods and loads of things in a givn moarvm instance

[18:57] <timotimo> i want to call it InspectoarGadget

[18:58] <TimToady> that's...hoarible

[18:59] <TimToady> oar something like that

[18:59] <TimToady> obviously our extension should've been .oar

[19:00] <TimToady> since the metaobjects are supposed to be invisible most of the time

[19:17] *** cognome joined
[19:17] *** brrt joined
[19:18] <brrt> \o

[19:18] <brrt> i need some advice on the modern world of hotel booking

[19:18] <brrt> (yes, i still need to book my hotel. i'm an idiot. it's on record)

[19:19] *** zakharyas joined
[19:19] <brrt> on booking.com i need to enter a credit card to guarantee my reservation

[19:19] <timotimo> brrt: i wasn't able to get any other person to reproduce crashing and burning with my branch

[19:20] <timotimo> so i'll probably just merge the branch

[19:20] <brrt> problem: i only have a debit card, which has no money, and which importantly i don't have with me

[19:20] <brrt> but spectest!

[19:20] <brrt> and printf

[19:20] <brrt> and moarvm release

[19:20] <timotimo> printf was something else

[19:20] <timotimo> as was rat.t

[19:20] <timotimo> those issus were brought to light by a change to bigint thingies

[19:21] <brrt> oooh.. ok

[19:21] <brrt> was the guard_concrete thingy still necessary btw?

[19:21] <timotimo> it sounded like you weren't able to build moarvm, too?

[19:21] <brrt> oh yes, moarvm i could build

[19:21] <timotimo> i haven't tested without

[19:22] <brrt> anyway, it turns out i can buy a voucher for a virtual credit card

[19:22] <[Coke]> brrt: Perhaps call the hotel and speak to a human?

[19:22] <brrt> if jnthn agrees, i think merging is ok

[19:22] <[Coke]> ah, that works.

[19:22] <brrt> uhm

[19:23] <brrt> that's actually a pretty good idea

[19:23] <jnthn> timotimo: Maybe merge just after the release now; I'd rather we don't sneak anything besides fixes in beforehand...

[19:23] <timotimo> aaw

[19:25] <brrt> [Coke]++ for great advice

[19:36] <brrt> ok /me is managing

[19:41] <timotimo> brrt: do you know of a good example where we'd have the iterator boolification thing?

[19:42] <brrt> pretty much all for @foo -> $bar { } loops

[19:42] <brrt> as in, inserting printf in these things make 'm very frequent

[19:43] <timotimo> how much stuff ends up getting generated around that on perl6 rather than nqp code?

[19:53] <brrt> i don't know really :-)

[19:54] <jnthn> At least all hash iteration in Perl 6 happens through the nqp::iterator API

[20:02] *** zakharyas1 joined
[20:15] *** Ven joined
[20:27] *** klaas-janstol joined
[20:35] *** colomon joined
[20:38] <timotimo> that sounds good at least

[20:38] <timotimo> my keyboard is deciding to randomly send keypresses that switch buffers in weechat when i type ...

[20:45] <jnthn> New keyboard time? :)

[20:47] <moritz> speaking of keyboards, I've recently discovered that the shift key is implemented purly in software

[20:47] <jnthn> o.O

[20:47] <jnthn> Caps lock too, then?

[20:47] <moritz> when I attach two USB keyboards, and I can press shift on one keyboard, and an alphabetic key on the other

[20:47] <moritz> and it comes out in upper case

[20:47] <moritz> jnthn: haven't tried that

[20:47] <jnthn> !!

[20:48] <jnthn> TIL...

[21:01] <timotimo> i just bought this keyboard a month ago!

[21:03] <jnthn> I dunno...play it more gently? :)

[21:03] <timotimo> probably

[21:08] <jnthn> My side of the brrt++ evaluation is now submitted.

[21:10] <timotimo> \o/

[21:10] <timotimo> and "my side" doesn't exist

[21:11] <jnthn> I think brrt did his bit.

[21:11] <jnthn> So, we seem to be good. \o/

[21:11] <jnthn> brrt++, timotimo++, Google++

[21:11] <TimToady> Quick, break all the bits!

[21:12] <jnthn> Noooo...let me tag the release first. :P

[21:12] <jnthn> I gotta get up for my YAPC flight in 7 hours or so. :P

[21:13] <jnthn> So I'd like this to go smoothly :)

[21:15] <[Coke]> 2 failing tests, with or without jit:

[21:15] <[Coke]> S32-io/IO-Socket-Async.rakudo.moar aborted 1 test(s)

[21:15] <[Coke]> S32-list/uniq.t aborted 7 test(s)

[21:17] <jnthn> When I looked at S32-io/IO-Socket-Async.t last I couldn't tell if it was mis-fudged or an oddly reliable heisenbug..

[21:19] <jnthn> As for S32-list/uniq.t, it seems to pass not under the harness, and fails to blow up with ASAN, which makes it rather frustrating. I suspect we may have to fudge that for release.

[21:21] <timotimo> https://gist.github.com/timo/07f9bed3358139944afd ‚Üê jnthn, how the F did this happen? o_O

[21:31] <jnthn> timotimo: Easily? :)

[21:32] <jnthn> timotimo: The first BB is actually a kind of "pseudo"-BB that points to all the exceptional entry points.

[21:32] <timotimo> it does not make sense to me, is all

[21:32] <timotimo> oh

[21:32] <jnthn> 'cus we might only end up in them through non-local control flow

[21:32] <timotimo> that makes sense

[21:32] <jnthn> And if they don't hang off something, then we'd kill them in dead BB analysis.

[21:33] <jnthn> OK, tagging the release.

[21:36] *** donaldh joined
[21:37] *** colomon joined
[21:39] <dalek> MoarVM: fd34f00 | jnthn++ | VERSION:

[21:39] <dalek> MoarVM: Bump VERSION.

[21:39] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/fd34f00205

[21:41] *** donaldh joined
[21:42] <jnthn> Darn it. The release tarball...doesn't work.

[21:43] <FROGGS> :o(

[21:45] <tadzik> ow

[21:45] <FROGGS> must be the MANIFEST, no?

[21:46] <FROGGS> ... or the thing that creates it

[21:46] <FROGGS> I'd guess that the new JIT source files might not be in there

[21:46] <timotimo> well ... fuck

[21:47] <timotimo> right. and even without --enable-jit, you still have to have the emit_dummy.c an demit.h

[21:55] *** jnap1 joined
[21:55] <dalek> MoarVM: 45a543f | jnthn++ | tools/release.sh:

[21:55] <dalek> MoarVM: Include dynasm submodule in release.

[21:55] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/45a543fac2

[21:56] <jnthn> That does it.

[21:58] <jnthn> http://www.moarvm.org/releases/MoarVM-2014.08.tar.gz

[21:58] <timotimo> oh, ah

[21:59] <jnthn> Given I've got an earlyish flight, I'll update the website from an airport somewhere tomorrow.

[21:59] <jnthn> Either in Copenhagen or the white city :)

[22:00] <jnthn> .oO( I came to Serbia for the first time and all I got was this lousy layover... )

[22:00] <timotimo> jnthn: any reason you changed lcm_I, but not gcd_I?

[22:00] <jnthn> ummm

[22:00] <timotimo> to put the allocation into the function it implements so that it can be jitted?

[22:00] <timotimo> i can just do the same transformation right now if you'd like

[22:01] <jnthn> I *think* 'cus lcm somehow used a macro form and I transofrmed the generating macro

[22:01] <jnthn> But gcd didn't

[22:01] <jnthn> I forget exactly

[22:01] <timotimo> ah

[22:01] <timotimo> i'll have a look-see

[22:01] <jnthn> I did the bigint ops that I immediately needed for bits of perl6-bench and that were LHF.

[22:01] <jnthn> We'll have to revisit bigint JIT in the future...

[22:01] <jnthn> At least for the common ops

[22:02] <timotimo> OK

[22:02] <timotimo> well, gcd is probably something that'd appear in pretty much every piece of rat-using code, eh?

[22:02] <jnthn> Yes :)

[22:02] <jnthn> So we should JIT it :)

[22:04] *** Ven joined
[22:07] <jnthn> OK, what's left on my pre-sleep todo list... :)

[22:11] *** woolfy left
[22:21] <timotimo> it should be easy to jit curcode ...

[22:21] <timotimo> and then i can probably just jit callercode, too.

[22:21] <timotimo> just a teeny tiny branch in there

[22:26] <dalek> MoarVM: ca7615e | (Timo Paulssen)++ | / (9 files):

[22:26] <dalek> MoarVM: split boolify_iter into two ops, for hash and array.

[22:26] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/ca7615ee52

[22:26] <dalek> MoarVM: 125e656 | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/spesh/facts.h:

[22:26] <dalek> MoarVM: waste one less bit in facts bitfield

[22:26] *** dalek joined
[22:28] <timotimo> (we already have callercode)

[22:28] <timotimo> (it was me who implemented that)

[22:38] <timotimo> bool_I seems hot, too

[22:38] <timotimo> (in the code i tested)

[22:47] <timotimo> this code spends a quarter of its time in add_frame_roots_to_worklist

[22:48] <timotimo> ah, now getcodeobj has taken its place

[22:49] <timotimo> jnthn: should i move the "getcodeobj needs a code ref" into the frame_get_code_object, or should the jitted code skip that check?

[22:49] <timotimo> ... or maybe throwing an exception isn't that hard?

[22:50] <jnthn> If you know it's BOOTCode you can elide the check

[22:50] <jnthn> But it's not really hot code...

[22:50] <jnthn> So I'd just put it in a function and call it

[22:50] <timotimo> i have 38 bails on it in this piece of programming

[22:50] <timotimo> "in a" or "into the"?

[22:51] <jnthn> Possibly into the

[22:51] <timotimo> OK

[22:51] <jnthn> If the interp is the only place that calls it

[22:51] <timotimo> i'll check how many callers it has

[22:51] <jnthn> If it's called from elsewhere then those places don't need the check, so more efficient to put it in another function

[22:51] <timotimo> aye, interp is the only place that calls it

[22:51] <jnthn> ok

[23:01] *** klaas-janstol joined
[23:02] <timotimo> implementing getcodeobj causes my program to segfault ... pretty much immediately after it compiles a frame that has it

[23:03] <timotimo> oh, actually

[23:03] <timotimo> many more frames with getcodeobj get jitted already

[23:04] <timotimo> oh

[23:04] <timotimo> maybe because it's not marked throwish

[23:05] <timotimo> nope, still segfaults ...

[23:12] <timotimo> why is use of MVMint32 and MVMint16 so inconsistent throughout graph.c to refer to a .reg.orig?

[23:13] <timotimo> at least 16 seems to be right in all cases

[23:15] <timotimo> i now remember that i don't have to mark things throwish that just do an adhoc exception

[23:16] <timotimo> bleeehhhh why does this segfault

[23:16] <timotimo> it passes a totally bogus pointer as the argument to getcodeobj

[23:18] <timotimo> why TF does it do that

[23:19] <dalek> MoarVM: 3606bbb | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/jit/ (2 files):

[23:19] <dalek> MoarVM: can jit curcode.

[23:19] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/3606bbba23

[23:19] <dalek> MoarVM: d6a1ce2 | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/jit/graph.c:

[23:19] <dalek> MoarVM: jit bool_I

[23:19] <dalek> MoarVM: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/d6a1ce2ad6

[23:19] <timotimo> at least this is sane stuff

[23:20] <dalek> MoarVM/jit_getcodeobj: 16ff4bd | (Timo Paulssen)++ | src/ (3 files):

[23:20] <dalek> MoarVM/jit_getcodeobj: try to jit getcodeobj, but this segfaults :(

[23:20] <dalek> MoarVM/jit_getcodeobj: review: https://github.com/MoarVM/MoarVM/commit/16ff4bdb82

[23:20] <timotimo> if someone could check that out, that'd be fantastic

[23:25] <timotimo> AFK
