[12:38] <Geth__> ¦ doc: tbrowder self-assigned Show accessing class methods programmatically https://github.com/Raku/doc/issues/4163

[13:12] *** Geth__ left
[13:12] *** Geth joined
[13:31] *** NemokoschKiwi joined
[14:35] <NemokoschKiwi> Cool. Updated the site, better late than never.

[14:36] <NemokoschKiwi> Also, is it worth to "advertise" it on #raku? How much is it meant to be open for everyone?

[15:44] <Geth> ¦ doc: tbrowder++ created pull request #4164: Add a practical example of class introspection

[15:44] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/pull/4164

[16:23] <lizmat> I seem to have misplaced where the meeting is going to be... could someone enlighten me in privmsg?

[16:23] <lizmat> or here  :-)

[16:38] <NemokoschKiwi> I think it's legitimately unknown

[16:38] <NemokoschKiwi> lol

[16:46] <lizmat> well... if [Coke] doesn't come up with a URL, I think I'll come up with one on Jitsi

[16:52] <[Coke]> yup, jitsi - figured we'd just reuse the last one

[16:52] <[Coke]> one sec

[16:53] <[Coke]> ... which is not on the wiki, oops

[16:54] <[Coke]> https://meet.jit.si/raku-docs

[16:54] <[Coke]> (advertising elsewhere) - I have no strong feelings one way or the other.

[17:35] <NemokoschKiwi> oh, one more thing: https://github.com/Raku/doc/discussions I haven't given up on this idea yet :D

[17:36] <NemokoschKiwi> And in particular, I'd really like to see a bit of brainstorming about, you know, the documentation of returned containers

[17:36] <NemokoschKiwi> That feels a lot like type information; something that should be representable in a compact way - once the design is cleared up

[18:16] <[Coke]> https://github.com/Raku/doc/discussions/4149 you  mean?

[18:16] <[Coke]> I don't think I'm getting emails on new discussions.

[18:16] <[Coke]> (or maybe just too many emails lately)

[18:23] <[Coke]> I added some notes to the top wiki page about the meeting (including the room - broke it out to avoid link scrapers which is probably overly cautious)

[18:23] <[Coke]> also a minor not about the infra issue to the project. emailing roman now...

[18:28] <[Coke]> sent

[18:28] <[Coke]> Now I will try to close at least one ticket or PR...

[18:36] <NemokoschKiwi> True... I wish discussions generated emails.

[18:36] *** NemokoschKiwi left
[18:59] *** sena_kun joined
[19:03] <lizmat> o/ sena_kun 

[19:04] <sena_kun> hi!

[19:04] <sena_kun> anything I can help with?

[19:05] <lizmat> yes

[19:05] <lizmat> what do you think is still needed from the infra team to get the new doc site operational

[19:06] <lizmat> because it is at least unclear to *me* what is needed

[19:14] <sena_kun> somebody who will host the website as a docker container (bonus points for reliability checks), and will redirect the domain to point to that host

[19:20] <lizmat> so the docker container is all set ?

[19:23] <sena_kun> Dockerfile is written, yes

[19:24] <lizmat> how are updates handled ?      I mean, if someone pushes to main in the doc repo, what happens?

[19:24] <lizmat> does someone need to push a button to update the site >

[19:24] <lizmat> ?

[19:26] <sena_kun> lizmat, if you want to update the content to main, you visit a special URL with private token, then it updates the content while the site is running. we can set auto-curling it daily if needed.

[19:28] <lizmat> when you're talking about reliability checks, you mean if it up?

[19:28] <lizmat> or more than that ?

[19:30] <sena_kun> 1)if it's up, if it's not, it should trigger restart; 2)in a perfect world we'll run two containers and do balancing on them, so that we can for example update the website itself without downtime (first container stops, the second one takes requests, the first one updates, when it finishes, it handles the requests, the other one updates).

[19:32] <lizmat> yeah, but if the restart fails, we want to be notified, right ?

[19:33] <sena_kun> sure

[19:33] <lizmat> so what happens now if the special URL is called?   The site stops working ?

[19:34] <sena_kun> no

[19:34] <sena_kun> the special URL updates the content only

[19:34] <sena_kun> the content updates without downtime

[19:34] <lizmat> ah... ok, so if we would change one of the templates, *then* we would have downtime

[19:35] <sena_kun> yes, for about 5 minutes or something

[19:35] <sena_kun> that's why having a couple of containers is a good, modern practice

[19:35] <lizmat> wow... that's.... pretty long ?

[19:35] <lizmat> what causes that long time?

[19:35] <sena_kun> that's down to devops though

[19:35] <sena_kun> lizmat, caching all the Pod files in the repo takes 95% of the time

[19:36] <sena_kun> not sure what's exactly slow, I suspect it's parsing

[19:36] <lizmat> aha... ok, gotcha

[19:37] <lizmat> hmmm... so if the contents are changed, only the changed pod files would need to be reparsed, right ?

[19:37] <sena_kun> yes

[19:37] <lizmat> ok, gotcha

[19:37] <lizmat> and there's no way to do the same for the templates, because we don't have the necessary dependency graph on the templates, right?

[19:38] <sena_kun> no, not because of that

[19:38] <sena_kun> the dependency graph is implemented recently btw

[19:38] <lizmat> ah, ok...

[19:39] <sena_kun> but because the templates are cached and AFAIK there is no API to say "please re-parse this file".

[19:40] <lizmat> understood

[19:41] <lizmat> so we would need a VM that could run 2 of the Docker containers at the same time, or be down for 5 mins when the templates / code have changed

[19:45] <lizmat> I'm sorry if the is the Nth time you're being asked this  :-(

[20:34] <sena_kun> yes

[20:34] <sena_kun> well, running just 2 containers is not that hard

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: 8f9298d551 | (Tom Browder)++ | doc/Language/classtut.pod6

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: Add a practical example of class introspection

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: The current docs do not show a practical, simple, and safe example of

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: the use and implementaion of class introspection. This PR attempts

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: to rectify the problem.

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/8f9298d551

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: 9c8feb43fe | (Tom Browder)++ | doc/Language/classtut.pod6

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: fix typo

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/9c8feb43fe

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: 848c19e48e | (Tom Browder)++ (committed using GitHub Web editor) | doc/Language/classtut.pod6

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: Merge pull request #4164 from tbrowder/introspect

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: 

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: Add a practical example of class introspection

[21:51] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/848c19e48e

[22:53] <[Coke]> Someone (not sena_kun) please grab this chat about todos and throw it on the raku/docs/wiki page.

[22:53] <[Coke]> I will do so tomorrow if it's still open.

[22:59] <Geth> ¦ doc: 883d9feb6b | Coke++ | doc/Language/classtut.pod6

[22:59] <Geth> ¦ doc: Make updated examples pass xt/

[22:59] <Geth> ¦ doc: review: https://github.com/Raku/doc/commit/883d9feb6b

[23:34] <[Coke]> crud, I forgot how to install the deps so i can run make xtest in a new checkout

